Header: Citygate Pricing

Table Details:
D1	25	50	25
Pipeline (Node2->Node3)	25	50	25
Total	50	100	50

Paragraphs:
Citygate pricing logic is used to calculate net delivery cost of gas at
                demand or storage injection node. This functionality can be divided in two
                parts:

Both these calculations are done post optimization based on user output
                property selections.

Delivered prices for each gas node are calculated by solving a system of
                linear equations \[A x = b\], where square matrix \[A\] represents node flows and
                vector \[b\] represents node injection costs. The delivered price calculated by
                solving this system of equations represents the injection weighted average
                of the injection cost of each gas source at the node as shown below.

Please note that this algorithm does not pair supply with demand and no
                priority-based allocations are performed. This is inline with portfolio
                optimization performed prior to this step where explicit pairing of supply
                and demand is not done. This algorithm is very fast since it only requires
                solution to a system of linear equations. Delivered price is influenced by price of initial inventory in a gas storage.
                Please refer to input property Initial Inventory Price for more details.

                Delivered price and cost of delivering the gas to a given node is available in the solution outputs at the Gas Node level.
                Please refer to the output properties below. Delivered Price Delivered Cost Delivered price is also used in calculating initial and ending Gas Storage inventory values.
                The initial storage inventory price is used to price any gas already available in the gas storage at the beginning of run.
                Any subsequent injections increase the inventory value by injected volume multiplied by delivered price in the current period.
                Any withdrawals decrease the inventory value by withdrawal volume multiplied by delivered price in the previous period.
                Please note that any withdrawals are priced at delivered price in previous period because delivered price is not known at the time
                withdrawal were made and value of withdrawals is important to determine delivered price for the current period.
                Please refer to the following output properties for getting initial and ending inventory values for a Gas Storage. Initial Inventory Value ($000) Ending Inventory Value ($000)

Gas Tracking is the idea of assigning every single molecule of gas coming
                from supply to demand. Gas Tracking can also be used to calculate delivered
                price at a gas node. However, it is modeled as a separate module in PLEXOS
                since calculations are more complex and need not be performed if detailed
                allocations are not desired.

To understand how PLEXOS tracks gas, the cocktail
                analogy is useful. As shown in the picture below, gas from various gas
                sources is mixed in uniformly. This blend is split among gas demands in the
                ratio of respective demands. For example, in the picture below, each demand
                is of the same amount. Hence, each demand takes 1/3 rd of each
                gas source.



The quantity delivered for each Gas Demand is available by gas source. Please refer to the output properties below. Delivered Quantity for Gas Demand by Gas Storages Delivered Quantity for Gas Demand by Gas Fields Delivered Quantity for Gas Demand by Gas Contracts Similarly, the quantity delivered for each Gas Storage can be tracked by gas source. Please refer to the output properties below. Delivered Quantity for Gas Storage by other Gas Storages Delivered Quantity for Gas Storage by Gas Fields Delivered Quantity for Gas Storage by Gas Contracts

The following is a simple gas network with 3 nodes. Gas sources S1, S2, S3 and S4, and Demand
                D1, D2, and D3 is shown below. All flows are known since optimization has
                already been performed.



Weighed Average Cost of 1 unit of gas at Node 1 is $2/MMBTU since gas
                source S1 is the only supplier of gas available at this node. However, at
                Node 2, gas is mixed in from 3 different sources, namely S1, S2 and S3. The
                respective injection amounts are 50, 100 and 50. Hence, injection weighted
                average price of one unit of gas at Node 2 is:

The incoming gas blend at Node 2 is split equally between demand D1 and
                pipeline flowing from Node 2 to Node 3. Hence, the blend gets split equally
                among two. Please note that column totals in the table below equal the
                respective takes from the gas source.
Lists:
	- Delivered Price Calculation
	- Gas Tracking
	- Delivered Price
	- Delivered Cost
	- Initial Inventory Value ($000)
	- Ending Inventory Value ($000)
	- Delivered Quantity for Gas Demand by Gas Storages
	- Delivered Quantity for Gas Demand by Gas Fields
	- Delivered Quantity for Gas Demand by Gas Contracts
	- Delivered Quantity for Gas Storage by other Gas Storages
	- Delivered Quantity for Gas Storage by Gas Fields
	- Delivered Quantity for Gas Storage by Gas Contracts


H2s:
Delivered Price Calculation
Gas Tracking
Example
