Header: PLEXOS Stochastic Hydro Optimization

Table Details:
Documented in literature?	Yes	Yes	No. Method was developed at Energy Exemplar
Recursive vs Non-recursive*	Non-recursive	Recursive	Recursive
Multi-stage tree exploration	No resampling	Some SDDP versions resample the tree allowing multiple
                exploration paths	No resampling
Speed solution	An equivalent SDDP tree is impossible to solve using today's
                available computers	It uses decomposition techniques and parallel resolution of
                independent sub problems to improve simulation performance.	It should have equivalent speed to SDDP and much faster than
                scenario reduction.
Linear or Integer?	Linear or MIP	Linear Only	Linear or MIP
Implemented in PLEXOS?	Yes	No	Yes
1	1/41	0.024390244
2	(1/41)^2	0.000594884
3	(1/41)^3	1.45094E-05
4	(1/41)^4	3.53887E-07
5	(1/41)^5	8.63139E-09
6	(1/41)^6	2.10522E-10
7	(1/41)^7	5.13468E-12
8	(1/41)^8	1.25236E-13
9	(1/41)^9	3.05454E-15
10	(1/41)^10	7.45009E-17
11	(1/41)^11	1.81709E-18
12	(1/41)^12	4.43194E-20
13	(1/41)^13	1.08096E-21
14	(1/41)^14	2.63649E-23
15	(1/41)^15	6.43046E-25
16	(1/41)^16	1.56841E-26
17	(1/41)^17	3.82538E-28
18	(1/41)^18	9.33019E-30
19	(1/41)^19	2.27566E-31
...	...	...
Documented in literature?	Yes	Yes	No. Method was developed at Energy Exemplar
Recursive vs Non Recursive	Non Recursive	Recursive	Recursive
Multi-stage tree exploration	No resampling	Some SDDP versions resample the tree allowing multiple
                exploration paths	No resampling
Speed solution	An equivalent SDDP tree is impossible to solve using today's
                available computers	It uses decomposition techniques and parallel resolution of
                independent sub problems to improve simulation performance.	It should equivalent to SDDP but faster than scenario
                reduction.
Linear or Integer?	Linear or MIP	Linear Only	Linear MIP
Implemented in PLEXOS?	Yes	No	Yes

Paragraphs:
By:

Felipe César Valdebenito Tepper, MSc Belén Elaine Leveroni Villafana, MSc Glenn Drayton, Ph.D.

For a PDF version of this article, click the following
              link :

PLEXOS
              Stochastic Hydro Optimization

In decision making under uncertainty, the decision maker has to make
          optimal decisions throughout a horizon with incomplete information.
          Over the considered decision horizon, a number of stages are defined
          and each stage represents a point in time where decisions are made or
          where uncertainty partially or totally vanishes. According to the
          number of stages considered in the optimization problem we can
          distinguish between two-stage and multi-stage stochastic problems. In
          a two-stage approach, the plan for the entire multi-period planning
          horizon is determined before the uncertainty is realized, and only a
          limited number of recourse actions can be taken afterwards. In
          contrast, a multi-stage approach allows revision of the planning
          decisions as more information regarding the uncertainties is revealed
          across the planning horizon.

Regarding stochastic optimization applied to hydro-thermal
          coordination, the two-stage approach only finds applications for short
          term operational planning. For medium and long-term studies, a
          multi-stage stochastic approach is more suitable because, in practice,
          the system operator or hydro plant companies are monitoring the state
          of the dam continuously and can take new decisions (stages) at any
          time given the actual and historical inflow information.

The disadvantage of multi-stage stochastic optimization is that the
          simulation time increases exponentially when more stages are added due
          to an increase in the dimensionality of the mathematical problem, and
          even when a few number of stages are added it can result in a problem
          impossible to solve without using reduction or decomposition
          techniques.

To help solve this dimensionality issue some algorithms have been
          proposed and this paper explores three of them:

Scenario reduction techniques only finds applications for a few
          number of stages and a reduced uncertainty, so it is not an option
          when the user wants to evaluate many stages and increased uncertainty.

SDDP (or DDP) is the method currently used in many countries where
          hydro-thermal coordination is paramount. It allows the user to
          evaluate many stages and uncertainty.

The Rolling Horizon method was researched and developed at Energy
          Exemplar Adelaide's office during 2013 - 2015. The idea behind this
          method is to formulate the equivalent reduced SDDP multi-stage tree
          using scenario-wise decomposition techniques plus non-anticipativity
          constraints.

The comparison table between these three methods is showed below.

The Rolling Horizon method is the method that will ultimately replace
          SDDP. Initial benchmarks between both methods, documented in this
          paper, using small multi-stage stochastic trees show that the
          objective function values are identical. Following the tests shown
          here more development work was undertaken throughout 2016-17 and the
          method's results benchmarked against full sized datasets confirming
          the accuracy of the results.

Additional developments supporting the Rolling Horizon method have
          been undertaken related to automating the creation of the required
          hanging branches in the stochastic tree reading historical inflow
          information. This was necessary because, for large stochastic trees,
          it is impractical to create a csv file manually with the required
          uncertainty. The developments undertaken were:

Power systems having both hydro-electric and thermal generation
          require a systematic and coordinated approach to determine an optimal
          policy for dam operations. The goal of a hydro-thermal planning tool
          is to minimize the expected thermal costs across the simulation
          period. These types of problems generally require stochastic analysis
          to deal with inflow uncertainty. This can increase the mathematical
          size of the problem and can easily become cumbersome to solve.

This whitepaper reviews three different algorithms of stochastic
          programming to solve this problem and how these techniques can be
          applied to hydro-thermal scheduling problem and introduces the method
          developed at Energy Exemplar. In addition, a case study solved using
          SDDP and the proposed method is done and a comparison is provided.

The systematic coordination of a system composed of both
          hydro-electric and thermal plants requires determining an operational
          strategy that for each period of the planning horizon produces a
          scheduling plan of generation. This strategy minimizes the expected
          operational cost along the period, which is mainly composed of fuel
          costs plus penalties for failure in load supply. The problem becomes
          complex to solve because generally in hydro systems:

Water as a fuel supply is cost-free, but its opportunity cost is
          fundamental to finding the optimal strategy for operations. This issue
          creates the need for a decision in each time period. Storage cannot be
          drained too low, which might incur generation shortfalls or excessive
          thermal output. On the other hand, we also want to avoid spillage of
          water and lost generation opportunities. Figure 1 summarizes the
          dilemma a hydro power planner faces to operate a dam.

A mathematical optimization tool can find a hydro releasing policy
          that minimizes the expected operational thermal cost by formulating an
          optimization problem such as the following:

Where the hydro balance equation shows the link between decisions in
          both the present and future.

Since water is free (no fuel cost) it is necessary to specify a
          final condition to minimise thermal costs along the simulation period,
          and to avoid the storage being completely drained. These final
          conditions can be represented as a target or a proxy for opportunity
          costs such as a deviation from targets, usually known as the future
          cost function or scrap value function.

In decision making under uncertainty, the decision maker must make
          optimal decisions throughout a decision horizon with incomplete
          information. Over the considered decision horizon, many stages are
          defined and each stage represents a point in time where decisions are
          made or where uncertainty partially or totally vanishes. The amount of
          information available to the decision maker is usually different from
          stage to stage. According to the number of stages considered in the
          optimization problem we can distinguish between:

The stochastic problem is graphically represented as a scenario
          tree.

A scenario tree consists of nodes and lines grouped in stages as
          showed in Figure 2. Each node in the scenario tree represents a
          possible state and it is a point in time where decisions are made.

The lines in the scenario tree are called "leaves" and represents
          the possible outcomes for the random variables so each of them has a
          probability associated. The sum of probabilities associated to each
          node is unity.

A path from the root node to any other node describes one
          realization of the stochastic process from the present time to the
          period that node appears. A path over the entire planning horizon is
          called a scenario.

Figure 2 shows a scenario tree consisting of 15 nodes, eight
          scenarios and three stages. This scenario tree represents a
          decision-making process where the decisions are re-evaluated four
          times (three stages plus the root node) along the planning horizon
          according to the revealed information at each stage.

Two-stage applies to a decision-making problem where decisions are
          made in two stages and there exists uncertainty represented by a set
          of scenarios or samples. It can be assumed that two different decision
          variable vectors: x and y are involved in this
          problem. Decision x is made before knowing the actual value
          of the scenarios, while y is determined after knowing the
          actual value of the scenario.

Decision y depends on the decision x previously
          made. The decision-making process is as follows:

In this decision-making process, two kinds of decision are made:

For all these decisions to be optimal, they need to be derived
          simultaneously by solving a single optimization problem, so that the
          relationships among the decision variables are properly accounted for.

In some cases, decision-making problems have more than two stages,
          and the two-stage stochastic programming problem showed above is not
          appropriate to represent them. This fact motivates the use of
          multi-stage stochastic programming problems. The decision-making
          process for a multi-stage stochastic problem with r stages
          is the following:

...

2r-2. Uncertainty is revealed

2r-1. Decision x r are made

This decision framework for a multi-stage problem is conveniently
          visualized using a scenario tree diagram like the tree in Figure 2.

In a two-stage approach, the plan for the entire multi-period
          planning horizon is determined before the uncertainty is realized, and
          only a limited number of recourse actions can be taken afterwards. In
          contrast, a multi-stage approach allows revision of the planning
          decisions as more information regarding the uncertainties is revealed
          along the planning horizon. Consequently, the multi-stage model is a
          better characterization of the dynamic planning process, and provides
          more flexibility than does the two-stage model.

Figure 3 shows an expected comparison when the same optimization
          problem is solved using simple average deterministic, two-stage
          stochastic optimization, and multi-stage stochastic optimization. As
          can be observed, the expected cost is lower in a multi-stage problem
          when the number of stages increases because the decision maker has
          opportunity to re-evaluate his initial decision as additional
          information arrives.

The disadvantage of multi-stage stochastic optimization problems is
          that the dimensionality increases exponentially when more stages are
          added and even when a few number of stages are added it can be
          impossible to solve without using reduction or decomposition
          techniques because of large dimensionality resulting problems.

Regarding stochastic optimization applied to hydro-thermal
          coordination, the two-stage approach only finds applications for short
          term operational planning. For medium and long-term studies, a
          multi-stage stochastic approach is more suitable because, in practice,
          the system operator or hydro plant companies are monitoring the state
          of the dam continuously and can take new decisions (stages) at any
          time given the actuals and historical inflow information.

A stochastic programming problem can be mathematically formulated
          using either a node-variable formulation or a scenario-variable
          formulation. The first formulation relies on variables associated with
          decision points while the second one relies on variables associated
          with scenarios.

Consider the example summarized in Figure 4 which shows a
          multi-stage stochastic problem where at each stage there are two
          possible outcomes for the inflow: Wet and Dry.

The node-variable formulation of this problem is as follows:

P) Min {C 1 (R 11 ) + p 21 [C 2 (R 21 )
          + p 31 C 3 (R 31 ) + p 32 C 3 (R 32 )]
          + p 22 [C 2 (R 22 ) + p 33 C 3 (R 33 )
          + p 31 C 3 (R 31 )]}

Subject to:

Where:

The Scenario-wise Decomposition formulation of this problem is as
          follows:

P) Min {p 11 ×p 21 [C 1 (R 11 )+C 2 (R 21 )
          + C 3 (R 31 )] + p 11 ×p 22 [C 1 (R 12 )+C 2 (R 22 )
          + C 3 (R 32 )] + p 12 ×p 21 [C 1 (R 13 )+C 2 (R 23 )
          + C 3 (R 33 )] + p 12 ×p 22 [C 1 (R 14 )+C 2 (R 24 )
          + C 3 (R 34 )]}

Subject to:

Where:

Scenario-wise decomposition requires a larger number of variables
          and constraints including those marked in blue above called
          "non-anticipativity". These conditions guarantee that decisions cannot
          be dependent on the scenario realization. They are logical constraints
          related to availability of information at any decision point in time.
          Red circles in Figure 4 shows non-anticipativity variables that need
          to be enforced at each node.

The decision model should be designed to allow the user to adopt a
          decision policy that can respond to events as they unfold. To
          formulate a multi-stage problem with dynamic stochastic data during
          time, emphasis has to be placed on the decision to be made today,
          given present resources, future uncertainties and possible recourse
          actions in the future.

Depending on the availability of information on the uncertain
          parameters at the beginning of each stage in the scenario tree,
          different recourse actions are defined for them.

It is possible to identify two types of decision depending on the
          availability of the information at the beginning of each stage:

The recursive multi-stage can be represented in the following
          scenario tree Figure:

The non - recursive multi-stage can be represented in the following
          scenario tree Figure:

The scenario tree representation doesn't say if the multi-stage
          problem is recursive or non-recursive so in addition to the diagram it
          is necessary to specify what type of recourse actions are available.

The following figure compares both approaches applied to stochastic
          multi-stage hydro problems where end volumes have to be decided given
          uncertainty in future inflows.

When using multi-stage stochastic optimization, many possible
          scenarios can be generated as shown in Figure 8. For such a high
          number of scenarios, it is impossible to numerically obtain a solution
          for the multi- stage optimization problem. Different techniques have
          been introduced in the literature to help solve this problem and
          commonly involve scenario tree reduction or a more simplified tree
          solved with decomposition techniques.

PLEXOS implements scenario reduction techniques as an option for
          solving these problems. These techniques use strategies to reduce the
          number of scenarios in the optimization problem using algorithms for
          constructing a multi-stage scenario tree out of a given set of
          scenarios.

Since generating a very small number of scenarios by Monte Carlo
          simulation is not desired because less scenarios give less
          information, the objective is to lose minimum information by the
          reduction process applied to the complete set of scenarios.

The disadvantage of this technique is that it is necessary to reduce
          the tree to a very small tree to make it mathematically solvable by
          current solvers. In most real cases, the resultant tree doesn't
          represent the uncertainty well.

Stochastic Dual Dynamic Programming (also called simple "Dual
          Dynamic Programming") is a method developed in the 1970s
          (Read, 1979) where the hydro temporal coupling decisions are broken and
          replaced by the concept called the Future Cost Function.

The hydro problem at each stage becomes:

An iterative approach is needed to create the Future Cost Function
          with cuts that approximate the real future cost function with a
          piecewise linear function (see Figure 10) that samples the storage at
          "interesting" states. One cut is created at each iteration and the
          method stops when a convergence criterion is met.

The multi-period stochastic hydro problem can be decomposed in
          multiple steps where each step can be represented by the sum of:

At each step, the corresponding actual costs decrease if more water
          is used but future costs increase so there is an optimal point where
          the release decision minimizes the sum of actual and future costs.

Each step is modelled as a linear programming (LP) problem and the
          iterative procedure has two passes: forward and backward. One cut for
          the future cost function at that particular step is created in each
          backward pass.

The algorithm to build the approximations to the Future Cost
          Function is summarized in the following section.

The SDDP algorithm can be explained graphically using the following
          multi-stage tree:

Blue paths are the forward simulation paths and light blue are the
          paths representing uncertainty, these light blue paths are used in the
          backward pass.

The forward pass can be summarized in the following figures, where
          the problem is decomposed in steps with a duration coincident with
          stage duration and the link between stages is represented using a
          Future Cost Function (FCF).

The first step mathematical problem can be represented using the
          following diagram:

The second step mathematical problems can be represented using the
          following diagrams:

The sub-problems are independent and sub problems in same step can
          be run in parallel.

The third step is similar.

The backward pass at each stage can be summarized in the following
          figures, where the yellow branches are the independent problems solved
          at each stage. Each backward stage produces a new cut to calculate the
          FCF.

It can be observed that all nodes of the forward and backward pass
          are solved independently.

SDDP algorithm can be formulated to solve the full multi-stage
          stochastic tree but it has the same dimensionality issue described in
          Figure 8, where the number of sub-problems are equal to: Leaves NumberStages .

The simplified SDDP tree reduces the size of the problem and then
          become mathematically solvable. This reduced tree has the following
          number of subproblems: Leaves x NumberStages . The following
          figure summarizes this simplified tree where red paths are the paths
          explored during forward simulation and grey branches represent
          uncertainty at each stage.

This method was researched and developed at Energy Exemplar's
          Adelaide office during 2013-2015. The problem is formulated using
          recursive scenario-wise decomposition formulation and the SDDP
          stochastic tree.

The full tree can be classified in full branches, hanging branches
          and death branches as showed below:

The resulting tree to be formulated in an optimization problem is:

As in SDDP, this method formulates a full recursive multi-stage
          stochastic problem. This method in PLEXOS is defined using the Global
          class of objects as showed in figure below:

To help to improve the speed, the hanging branches were designed to
          have one block per stage from the stage that follows the stage they
          were created. This is like the equivalent SDDP reduced tree showed in
          Figure 20.

When the hanging branches equivalent multi-stage tree is formulated,
          it exists a solver limitation to solve the problem in one single step.

For example, if the user would like to solve this problem: 120
          stages, 40 hanging branches per stage and 40 full branches for 10
          years using 5 blocks LDC per month. This means the following:

Then solving the problem from the first stage until the last one
          produces tiny weights for future branches, this is illustrated in the
          table below for the example described above:

A safe range of objective coefficients guaranteed by a commercial
          solver is between 10^-6 and 10^6, that means it can only be ensured a
          multi-stage solution until stage three.

The multi-stage stochastic optimization says that at each stage the
          decision maker can change his mind and take a new decision because
          additional information is revealed, so this limitation can be solved
          in the same way a multi-stage stochastic problem is solved in the real
          life: using a rolling horizon approach splitting the horizon in steps.
          The only information passed between steps is related to storage
          end/initial volumes.

The Rolling Horizon approach is designed to overcome the limitation
          of vanishingly small probabilities deep into the future. The method
          looks ahead until certain point in the future and the end volumes in
          that point are passed as initial volumes at the start of the next
          step.

For a horizon divided in four different steps, the algorithm works
          as follows:

Step 1:

Step 2:

Step 3:

Step 4:

Figure 25 shows the hanging branches method for a multi-stage
          problem consisting of 4 stages, 2 hanging branches per stage and 1
          full branch where the horizon is divided in 4 different steps.

Table 2 summarizes the difference between the three methods studied:
          scenario tree reduction, SDDP and Rolling Horizon approach to solve
          stochastic multi-stage problems.

Click the link below to view a case study showing the resolution of
          the problem using SDDP and hanging branches method.

The approach to solve hydro-thermal coordination optimization
          problems is to use stochastic optimization techniques to ensure the
          user minimizes the cost or alternatively maximizes the benefits of a
          hydro-thermal portfolio under uncertainty. A stochastic problem can be
          classified in:



The formulation of a multi-stage stochastic problem has
          dimensionality issues even when a few number of stages are added so
          simplifications on the resultant tree have to be made to produce a
          problem solvable by today computers.

An equivalent SDDP tree is possible to formulate using scenario-wise
          decomposition and nonanticipativity constraints. This problem is
          possible to solve using today's computers.

The Rolling Horizon method in looks promising to replace SDDP.

A multi-stage stochastic programming approach for production
            planning with uncertainty in the quality of raw materials and demand . 
          ZanjaniM.K.,Nourelfath, M. / Ait-Kadi, D.16,  International Journal of
          Production Research, 4701-4723.

ConejoA.J.,Carrión, M. & Morales, J.M. Decision Making Under
            Uncertainty in Electricity Markets . Boston, MA, Springer
          U.S., 2010.

NewhamN. Power System Investment Planning using Stochastic Dual
            Dynamic Programming . 2008.

ReadE.Grant Power System Optimisation . , University of
          Canterbury, 1979.

Stochastic Dual Dynamic Programming with CVar Risk Constraints
            Applied to Hydrothermal Scheduling .  Da Costa
          JuniorPereira,Granville, Campodónico, Costa Fampa2013. International
          Conference on Stochastic Programming.

Stochastic optimization of a hydro-thermal system including
            network constraints . al.Pereiraet2, IEEE Transactions on Power
          Systems, 791-797.

TroncosoC. Herramienta docente para estudios de coordinación
            hidrotérmica . 2010.

Benders cuts take advantage of the following mathematical structure:

This can be interpreted as a two-stage sequential decisions process.
          In the first stage we decide on a trial feasible value for X1 and
          given the trial value we find the optimal solution of the second stage
          function:

X1 is known value in the second stage problem, and goes to the right
          hand side of the constraints. The objective then is to minimize the
          sum of the first - stage and second stage cost functions:

Where C1X1 represents the "actual cost" and α represents the "future
          cost" of decision X1. The future cost function translates the second
          stage costs as a function of the first stage decisions X1. If this
          function is available the problem can be solved as a one stage problem
          and then simplify the computation time.

The future cost function is approximated by an analytical function
          rather than a set of discrete values using a piecewise linear
          function. The structure of the future cost function can be
          characterized by taking the dual of the second stage problem:

π is the row vector of dual variables. From LP theory, optimal
          solution of dual and the original problem
          coincide. Since X1 is in the objective function and not in the right
          hand side of the constraint set as in the
          original problem, the set of possible solutions can be characterized
          before knowing the decision X1.

The problem can be solved by enumeration:

This is equivalent to rewrite the problem as:

The problem can be rewritten as:

We can rewrite the obtained cuts:

Assuming dual and primal has the same value we can write:

Substituting previous expression in cuts formulation (*), we can get
          an alternative expression for FCF:

Hydro problems share same mathematical structure described above
          where the link between stages is the hydro balance equation:

Stochastic problems can be written as:

Were p1 and p2 are the probabilities to obtain b1 and b2. The second
          stage problem can be written as follows:

This problem can be decomposed into two independent problems:

The original problem can be rewritten as:

The function α represents expected value of future cost function:

The benders cuts associated to this problem are:

That can be rewritten as:

Grouping the above equation we obtain the cut expression for
          stochastic problems:
Lists:
	- Historical apertures. Where the hanging branches are created
            randomly sampling the historical inflow information at each stage.
	- PARMA time series. A more powerful option than a) since the
            hanging branches are be created from past information so, for
            example, 'wet' observed scenarios are more probably to remain wet in
            the future. This is achieved using a periodic ARMA time series
            (PARMA).
	- Natural inflows are stochastic processes.
	- Availability of water stored in dams is limited.
	- There are complex cascading hydro systems.
	- Existing water usage policies and environmental releases such as
            irrigation settlements.
	- Two-stage stochastic problems
	- Multi-stage stochastic problems
	- V 11 = V 01 - R 11 + / 11
	- V 21 = V 11 - R 21 + / 21
	- V 31 = V 21 - R 31 + / 31
	- V 32 = V 21 - R 32 + / 32
	- V 22 = V 11 - R 22 + / 22
	- V 33 = V 22 - R 33 + / 33
	- V 34 = V 22 - R 34 + / 34
	- Energy Balance
	- Storage Capacity
	- Max Capacity
	- V i,k : End volume at stage i, scenario k
	- R i,k : Storage release at stage i, scenario k
	- / i,k : Inflow at stage i, scenario k
	- p i,k : Probability of scenario k at stage i.
	- C(R i,k ): Thermal cost that results from release policy
            R i,k
	- V 11 = V 01 - R 11 + / 11
	- V 21 = V 11 - R 21 + / 21
	- V 31 = V 21 - R 31 + / 31
	- V 12 = V 02 - R 12 + / 12
	- V 22 = V 12 - R 22 + / 22
	- V 32 = V 22 - R 32 + / 33
	- V 13 = V 03 - R 13 + / 14
	- V 23 = V 13 - R 23 + / 24
	- V 33 = V 23 - R 33 + / 34
	- V 14 = V 04 - R 14 + / 14
	- V 24 = V 14 - R 24 + / 24
	- V 34 = V 24 - R 34 + / 34
	- Energy Balance
	- Storage Capacity
	- Max Capacity
	- V 01 =V 02 =V 03 =V 04
	- V 11 =V 12 =V 13 =V 14
	- V 21 =V 22
	- V 23 =V 24
	- V 31 , V 32 , V 33 , V 34 free
	- V i,k : End volume at stage i, scenario k
	- R i,k : Storage release at stage i, scenario k
	- / i,k : Inflow at stage i, scenario k
	- p i,k : Probability of scenario k at stage i.
	- C(R i,k ): Thermal cost that results from release policy
            R i,k
	- The first 41 branches (40 hanging + 1 full branch) has 1/41
            probability occurrence.
	- The second stage has 41 branches (40 hanging + 1 full branch) so
            each one has 1/41 probability of occurrence. So, from the first
            stage the probability for each second stage branch is 1/41*1/41.
	- For next stages it is the same.


H2s:
Contents
1. Executive Summary
2. Introduction
3. The Challenge
4. The Formulation
5. Stochastic Optimization
6. Algorithms to solve stochastic
          hydro-thermal coordination
7. Case Study
8. Conclusions
9. References
10. Annexes

H3s:
5.1. Scenario Tree
          Representation
5.2. Stochastic Problem
          Formulation: Two-stage vs Multi-stage
5.3. Stochastic Problem
          Formulation: Node vs Scenario-wise Decomposition
5.4. Recourse vs Non-recursive
          Multi-stage Stochastic Problem
5.5. Stochastic multi-stage
          hydro dimensionality issue
6.1. Multi-stage tree
          reduction
6.2. Stochastic Dual Dynamic
          Programming
6.3. Hanging branches
6.4. Comparison of different
          stochastic programming algorithms
7.2. Model solution using SDDP algorithm
8. ConclusionsThe approach to solve hydro-thermal coordination optimization
          problems is to use stochastic optimization techniques to ensure the
          user minimizes the cost or alternatively maximizes the benefits of a
          hydro-thermal portfolio under uncertainty. A stochastic problem can be
          classified in:Two-stage or Multi-stagesRecursive or non-recursiveThe current trend in the industry to solve a medium - long term
        stochastic hydro problems is formulating a multi-stage stochastic
        programming and recursive approach.The formulation of a multi-stage stochastic problem has
          dimensionality issues even when a few number of stages are added so
          simplifications on the resultant tree have to be made to produce a
          problem solvable by today computers.An equivalent SDDP tree is possible to formulate using scenario-wise
          decomposition and nonanticipativity constraints. This problem is
          possible to solve using today's computers.The Rolling Horizon method in looks promising to replace SDDP.9. ReferencesA multi-stage stochastic programming approach for production
            planning with uncertainty in the quality of raw materials and demand. 
          ZanjaniM.K.,Nourelfath, M. / Ait-Kadi, D.16,  International Journal of
          Production Research, 4701-4723.ConejoA.J.,Carrión, M. & Morales, J.M.Decision Making Under
            Uncertainty in Electricity Markets. Boston, MA, Springer
          U.S., 2010.NewhamN.Power System Investment Planning using Stochastic Dual
            Dynamic Programming. 2008.ReadE.GrantPower System Optimisation. , University of
          Canterbury, 1979.Stochastic Dual Dynamic Programming with CVar Risk Constraints
            Applied to Hydrothermal Scheduling.  Da Costa
          JuniorPereira,Granville, Campodónico, Costa Fampa2013. International
          Conference on Stochastic Programming.Stochastic optimization of a hydro-thermal system including
            network constraints. al.Pereiraet2, IEEE Transactions on Power
          Systems, 791-797.TroncosoC.Herramienta docente para estudios de coordinación
            hidrotérmica. 2010.10. AnnexesSDDP algorithm deterministic approachBenders cuts take advantage of the following mathematical structure:This can be interpreted as a two-stage sequential decisions process.
          In the first stage we decide on a trial feasible value for X1 and
          given the trial value we find the optimal solution of the second stage
          function:X1 is known value in the second stage problem, and goes to the right
          hand side of the constraints. The objective then is to minimize the
          sum of the first - stage and second stage cost functions:Where C1X1 represents the "actual cost" and α represents the "future
          cost" of decision X1. The future cost function translates the second
          stage costs as a function of the first stage decisions X1. If this
          function is available the problem can be solved as a one stage problem
          and then simplify the computation time.The future cost function is approximated by an analytical function
          rather than a set of discrete values using a piecewise linear
          function. The structure of the future cost function can be
          characterized by taking the dual of the second stage problem:π is the row vector of dual variables. From LP theory, optimal
          solution of dual and the original problem
          coincide. Since X1 is in the objective function and not in the right
          hand side of the constraint set as in the
          original problem, the set of possible solutions can be characterized
          before knowing the decision X1.The problem can be solved by enumeration:This is equivalent to rewrite the problem as:The problem can be rewritten as:We can rewrite the obtained cuts:Assuming dual and primal has the same value we can write:Substituting previous expression in cuts formulation (*), we can get
          an alternative expression for FCF:Hydro problems share same mathematical structure described above
          where the link between stages is the hydro balance equation:SDDP algorithm stochastic approach:Stochastic problems can be written as:Were p1 and p2 are the probabilities to obtain b1 and b2. The second
          stage problem can be written as follows:This problem can be decomposed into two independent problems:The original problem can be rewritten as:The functionαrepresents expected value of future cost function:The benders cuts associated to this problem are:That can be rewritten as:Grouping the above equation we obtain the cut expression for
          stochastic problems:

H4s:
5.1.1. Two-stage Stochastic
          Problem
5.1.2. Multi-stage
          Stochastic Problem
5.3.1 Node formulation
5.3.2 Scenario-wise
          Decomposition (SWD) or scenario-variable formulation
5.4.1. Recursive multi-stage
5.4.2. Non - Recursive
          multi-stage
6.2.1. Schematic
          representation of SDDP
6.2.2. SDDP Algorithm
6.2.3. Solving the full
          multi-stage stochastic graphically tree using SDDP
6.3.1. Hanging branch
          weights
6.3.2. Hanging branches with
          rolling horizon

H5s:
Forward Pass
Backward Pass
Simplified tree solved using SDDP
SDDP algorithm deterministic approach
SDDP algorithm stochastic approach:
