Header: Optimizing Performance

Table Details:

Paragraphs:
Before discussing performance, it is useful to understand the
          structure of the PLEXOS simulation engine. This is illustrated here.

The engine separates the 'business logic' from the mathematical
          programming. The Simulation Core contains all the logic to model a
          power system, whereas the AMMO component deals entirely with
          mathematical objects, and integrates tightly with the solver(s)(see
          below). The total simulation time is thus a combination of the time spent in
          the simulation logic plus the time spent in the mathematical solver.
          In general the solver accounts for between 60 - 99% of the total
          simulation time. With the Performance
            Summary diagnostic switched on, the simulation and solver
          performance is summarized at the end of each simulation phase in the
          log file as in the following example:

In this example the time in the solver was nearly 92% of the overall
          simulation time. The other items in this report refer to:

The AMMO component of PLEXOS supports several solvers. See
          Performance Solver for details.

It is not easy to predict with certainty solver performs 'best',
          because the solvers all perform differently depending on the size,
          type, and complexity of the problem, and the solvers are subject to
          continuous improvement from version to version. Thus it is best to
          test the available alternatives and chose the solver that performs
          best on your problems.

A range of solver-related options are available via the Performance object as shown in the following figure.



The default solver settings will perform best on the majority
            of problems . You should only change these settings with the
          help and advice of your support representative.

As a general guide however, the following are some occasions where
          you might need to change the default settings:

Even though popular linear programming solution methods like simplex
          or Barrier (Interior) are developed, tested and documented for a wide
          variety of optimization problems, these methods can show significant
          performance differences depending on the selection of (many)
          configuration parameters. When it comes to MIP, non-polynomial
          execution times are expected for NP-hard problems like the Unit
          Commitment problem. Solver developers may offer a series of default
          values. Most relevant, like algorithm selection, target MIP gap and
          Max Execution time can be configured using PLEXOS Performance objects (as screens above). Excluding some few exceptions, PLEXOS
          doesn't change the default settings for many other configuration
          parameters available in most of the commercial solvers. If the user
          desires to extend the configuration parameters available in the
          Performance object, he/she can use a special performance configuration
          xml file. It is strongly recommended some experience before changing
          the default settings as they can seriously affect performance. The
          structure of the XML is shown below. An xml syntax example is also
          included above.

Each solver has it's own set of parameter and intrinsic nomenclature,
          so it is recommended to visit the solver's webpage before creating
          your own performance file.

The following xml code shows how to activate solution polisher after 1000secs in CPLEX
          (disabled by default).
Lists:
	- Setup: time spent creating the mathematical programming
            formulation
	- Modify: time spent updating the formulation between simulation
            steps or samples
	- Monitor: Time spent checking and enforcing constraints that are
            'monitored' rather than being loaded 'upfront'
	- Solution: Time spent calculating solution properties
	- Write: Time spent writing solution data to the solution database


H5s:
XML Advanced Custom Solver Performance
          File Example
