Header: Combined Heat and Power

Table Details:
Power to Heat Ratio	Key	Defines CHP unit
CHP Electric
                  Heat Rate Incr	Key	Required for heat production
Heat Rate Incr	Optional	Efficiency for condense mode
Boiler Heat Rate
                  Incr	Optional	Ancillary boiler heat production
CHP Heat
                  Surrogate Heat Rate Incr	Optional	Notional value for heat fuel offtake estimation. This property
                is only used for CHP
                  Heat Surrogate Fuel Offtake at the solution
C0	2650	1250
C1	14.5	36
C2	0.0345	0.0435
C3	4.2	0.6
C4	0.034	0.027
C5	0.031	0.011
Coefficient	Property
C0	Heat Rate Base
C1	Heat Rate Incr
C2	Heat Rate Incr 2
C3	(CHP Electric
                  Heat Rate Incr-Heat
                  Rate Incr) x Power
                  to Heat Ratio
C4	-
C5	-
Max Capacity	200	MW
Min Stable Level	50	MW
Heat Rate	13	GJ/MWh
Heat Load	50	GJ
Power to Heat Ratio	3.8	-
CHP Electric Heat Rate Incr	15	GJ/MWh
Boiler Heat Rate Incr	1.2	GJ/GJ
Max Boiler Heat	15	GJ
Heat Rate	6	GJ/MWh
Power to Heat Ratio	1	-
CHP Electric
                  Heat Rate Incr	11	GJ/MWh
Compete-Heat	Sense	=
Compete-Heat	RHS	50
Constraint(Compete-Heat).Generators(cogen)	Heat Production Coefficient	1
Constraint(Compete Heat). Generators(cogen)	Heat Production Coefficient	1
CCGT	Generation	200	MW
Cogen	Generation	0	MW
Hydro	Generation	300	MW
CCGT	Heat Production	50	GJ
Cogen	Heat Production	0	GJ
Generator	Heat Rate	8.5	GJ/MWh
Market Heat
                  Generators	Conversion
                  Rate	0.29	GJ/GJ

Paragraphs:
Combined Power and Heat (CHP) refers to the simultaneous production
          of electric power and usable high enthalpy steam for industrial
          processes and/or heat exchangers for district heating. District
          heating is a system for distributing heat usually for residential and
          commercial requirements such as heating systems and water heating. A
          typical layout consists of centralized heat generation, usually
          composed of heat boilers and co-generation plants in parallel, and a
          heat-isolated distribution pipeline network. CHP and district heating
          is an efficient form of energy production that can produce significant
          cost savings and reduce carbon emissions (it is also awarded by low
          carbon footprints). The CHP dispatch problem consists of finding the optimal levels of
          electricity output considering heat requirements. It is sometimes
          referred to as a multi-objective optimization problem. In the
          simulation cost model, heat and power are related by the feasible
          region of the CHP generators and fuel costs are minimized. In a
          competitive model (i.e. when Market objects are defined), heat is represented by a simplified linear
          approximation and profit maximization becomes the objective function.
          The following article describes both models and shows some numerical
          examples of the various alternatives. Fundamentals of CHP modelling:

Two types of CHP generators can be defined:

In the former option, special features of co-generation units can be
          defined in detail whereas in the latter a simplified linear model for
          waste heat can be supplied to a generic market if prices are
          competitive enough. Co-generation plants in district heating (first
          option) can be defined as a simplified power-to-heat linear constant
          relationship or, a more complex option, as an operating area where the
          unit has the ability to deliver both electrical and heat output. CHP are defined as instances of the Generator class. A CHP can consist of one co-generation power plant with an
          optional auxiliary boiler (often called stand-alone ancillary boiler).
          Tri-generation and other modern forms also belong to the CHP class and
          can be modelled in the same way as described in the following
          sections. Generator are recognized
          as CHP type when certain properties are defined.

This is a simplified version of the operational region of the unit.
          It is useful when complete operational zone data are not available.
          However, reported power-to-heat
            ratio efficiencies are easier to find from different vendors and
          statistical communities. CHP units can deliver pure electrical (often
          referred to as 'condense mode'), power and heat (referred to as 'CHP
          mode') and pure heat (usually by its ancillary boiler). Figure 1
          illustrates the schematic equivalent of this mode. In Condense mode, the Fuel
            Offtake function is given by:

In Condense mode, the Fuel
            Offtake function is given by: F(cond) = Heat Rate x E(cond) In CHP mode, the Fuel Offtake function is given by: F(chp) = CHP Electric Heat Rate Incr × E(chp) The unit can thus operate in a mixed mode, condense and CHP modes,
          like in the following expression: F = F(cond) + F(chp) F = Heat Rate × E(cond) + CHP Electric Heat Rate Incr * E(chp) F = Heat Rate × (E - E(chp)) + CHP Electric Heat Rate Incr * E(chp) Since: E(chp)= Power-to-Heat Ratio × H and: E = E(cond) + E(chp) it results: F = Heat Rate × E + ( CHP Electric Heat Rate Incr - Heat Rate ) ×
          Power to Heat Ratio × H Auxiliary boiler produces heat according to the following expression: F(aux) = Boiler Heat Rate Incr × I Notes:

In this model, CHP units are represented by a feasible piecewise
          representation of the thermal characteristics of the boiler. This is
          an acceptably accurate representation of many commercial co-generation
          power plants currently in use. The quadrilateral area in Figure 2
          defines the feasible operating region of the CHP units.

The boundaries of the feasible region are defined by:

Usually refers to the electro-mechanical limits of the steam the
          turbine.

Isothermal limits of the boiler. Not that the Min
            Stable Level in CHP mode is defined by the minimum fuel input of
          the unit (i.e. flame stability).

This value is defined by E > Power
            to Heat Ratio x H

Table 1 lists all properties related to CHP.

CHP offtake representation can be a non-linear 2nd order polynomial
          expression. The optimization problem can be solved using QP or MIQP.
          According to CHP specialized references the fuel offtake function has
          the following generic non-linear form [1]:

F = ∑_i[c_i (p_i)]+∑_j[c_j (p_i,h_j ) ]+∑_k[c_k (h_k)]

Where ci, ck and cj are the coefficients for Condense mode only units
          i, CHP units j and pure heat producers k (ancillary boilers),
          respectively. Note that the term ∑_j[c_j (p_i,h_j ) ] could be any
          non-linear function of electricity and heat production. In [2], a test
          system for Combined Heat a Power is developed and analyzed in details.
          Numerical examples for CHP units have the following form:

F_i = c_(0,i )+c_(1,i ) p_i+c_(2,i ) p_i^2+c_(3,i ) h_i+c_(4,i )
          h_i^2+c_(5,i ) p_i h_i

Table 3: Suggested values for the 2nd order polynomial[2]

Currently, the non-linear coefficients C4 and C5 are not supported.
          The following values are supported:

Table 4: Modelling non-linear CHP functions

Multi-fuel definition is supported. There is an important limitation
          that has to be considered. Since CHP mode efficiency and auxiliary
          boiler are defined as Generator properties, the fuel offtake function has to also be defined as a Generator property. If the heat rate
          function (in any of its modalities as explained in the Heat
            Rate Modelling article) is defined in the Generator Fuels collection, they have to be identical across all fuels. If they
          differ, a warning will be issued. Fuel Offtake for heat production is: F = AHR × E + ( CHP
            Electric Heat Rate Incr - AHR ) × Power
            to Heat Ratio × H With: AHR = ∑( Heat Rate ) / N Where N is the number of defined fuels. The user can still create
          diversity and scale total cost functions using Transport
            Charge and/or Shadow Price .

This model applies to CHP units with defined active Market objects. Waste heat is modelled as a linear proportion of the energy
          loss, which is defined by the difference between the unit's electrical
          output energy and the fuel input energy. In order to define this
          proportion, it is required to define the property Heat
            Generators Conversion
            Rate in the respective membership. Figure 4 shows the simplified
          market model where "HR" is the Generator Heat
            Rate value and 'k' is the linear proportion of fuel heat input
          for the external market Conversion Rate. When the user defines Heat
          Rate in multiple bands, the Conversion Rate must be defined using the
          same number of bands as Load Point .
          Generators can participate in more than one Market.

When using waste heat market model, CHP key properties are ignored.
          Fuel 'Isothermal' limits are still considered though. The Fuel Offtake
          function is defined by the offtake for electricity production, as
          waste heat is produced only if electricity is also delivered to the
          node(s). The natural objective function, as with any other market
          model, is profit maximization. The solution will show the optimal
          trade-off between electricity and heat production, according to the
          heat waste market prices.

In this example, a simple CHP generator is defined using the key
          properties Power to Heat
            Ratio and CHP
            Electric Heat Rate Incr . Figure 5 shows the system modelled. The
          data for the CHP unit is presented in Table 5.

Table 5: Power to Heat Ratio Numerical

In this example, there is a constant heat load of 50 GJ which can be
          supplied by the cogeneration of electricity and heat or in combination
          with the ancillary boiler (as it is defined by the last two properties
          in the table above). The simulator will understand that the generator
          has an auxiliary boiler when the property Boiler
            Heat Rate Incr is defined. For the electrical system load
          demand, the optimal solution solves the decision problem of optimal
          electrical dispatch of the CHP unit and its auxiliary boiler in order
          to meet the heat load demand. The Fuel
            Offtake function (F) of the CHP unit is: F = 13 × P + (15-13) × (3.8 / 3.6) × H = 13 × P + 2.111 × H Feasible operating region of the CHP unit is showed in the Figure 6:

The red dot in the figure shows the results of the economical
          dispatch of CHP. The rationale for the dispatch solution lies in that
          the CHP unit for electricity production is more expensive than its
          alternatives CCGT and Hydro units. So the operation of CHP in this
          case is bounded at its lower electricity production range (50 MW). The
          high efficiency auxiliary boiler is required at the optimal solution.
          The heat load demand is then satisfied from 15 GJ (max capacity of
          ancillary boiler) and 35 GJ from the co-generation plant.

From the optimal solution, an increment in the heat load demand will
          affect the electrical and heat dispatch of the co-generation plant and
          will also affect the other unit's dispatch. The shadow price of the
          heat balance constraint (i.e. the dual variable of (2 4)) is 33.77
          $/GJ. Since no other constraints would bind in this simple linear
          model, an easy exercise can show that an increase of 1 GJ of heat load
          would increase the total system cost. This is: ∂Fo/∂H≈(ΔTotal Cost)/ΔH=(Fo(51GJ)-F(50GJ))/((51-50)) Following the same numerical example, this leads to: ∂Fo/∂H≈19104-19070.22=33.77 The explanation comes from the gradient of the Lagrangian function at
          the optimal solution. Assuming μ the Lagrange multipliers and Q the
          set of active constraints and assuming in advance that the heat load
          constraint is active:

μ=16*2.111=33.777 In practical terms, the heat price 33.77 $/GJ is
          the competitive price of heat production considering the electrical
          system and the co-generation capabilities of the power plants.

This case is an extension of the previous example. In this case the
          CCGT waste heat is assumed to be also connected to the district
          heating system.

In order to model this feature, the following changes are required:

Table 6: CCGT Power to Heat Ratio Required data

The following Constraint "Compete-Heat"
          is required: Table 7: Compete-Heat Constraint

The optimal 'electrical' dispatch is:

The co-optimization of heat and power also leads to the following
          heat dispatch solution:

Even though results may look trivial, the formulation can be
          extended. Co-optimization is extended to complex
          transmission-constrained power systems, ancillary requirements, etc.
          Any number of co-generation plants can be defined for the same
          district heating system. CHP units or any other co-generation plant
          may have the option to supply its own 'fixed' heat load and additional
          waste heat can participate in complex district heating networks.

Suppose that there exists an external heat waste competitive market
          and cogen plant can offer its waste heat. In this case the dispatch
          problem of cogen solves the trade-off between generating electricity
          where it is not competitive and may even have losses compared with a
          demand response function of the heat market. The solution should
          maximize the profits considering the revenue from electricity and heat
          markets. The properties related to the Market "Heat" are shown in Table 8.

Table 8: Market for Heat

In this example the generator has a constant Heat
            Rate of 8.5 GJ/MWh. This is an equivalent efficiency of 3.6 /
          8.5 = 42%. Here, 3.6 is the constant [MWh/GJ] energy conversion value.
          Thus the gross waste heat is 58%. Assuming that half of this is lost
          before it can be used in heating the Conversion
            Rate to usable heat is 0.5 0.58 = 0.29.

CHP plant can be configured with heat storage. In addition, dedicated
          electric boilers can also be modelled. See the separate article Heat
            Storage .

1. Guo,T., Henwood, M.I., van Ooijen,M. "An Algorithm for Combined
          Heat and Power Economic Dispatch". ''IEEE Transactions on Power
          Systems''. Vol. 11 No. 4. November 1996. 2. Algie,C., Wong,K.,P. "A Test System for Combined Heat and Power
          Economic Dispatch Problems". ''2004 IEEE International Conference on
          Electric Utility Deregulation, Restructuring and Power Technologies''.
          (DRPT2004). April 2004. Hong Kong. 3. "Combined Heat and Power (CHP) and Statistics". ''Joint
          IEA/Eurostat Annual Questionnaire Training Workshop''. IEA, Paris 29 -
          31 October 2001.
Lists:
	- Represent the impact of increasing heat load on overall fuel
            consumption (i.e. on electrical efficiency).
	- Ability for two or more Generator objects to deliver heat to a single heat demand point, and hence let
            the model choose which of the generators to use to meet that heat
            load.
	- Ability to meet the heat load by auxiliary heating boilers within
            a power plant. Heating boilers are specified through two properties: Max Boiler Heat and Boiler
              Efficiency .
	- Input property Heat Load is
            the total over the station (i.e. The Generator object not per unit).
	- Fuel Offtake reported is
            the total fuel used by the Generator including its auxiliary boiler, if defined, and Heat
              Fuel Offtake is the fuel offtake from heat production.
	- Generation Cost is the
            electric production cost, and Heat
              Production Cost is that from heat production (note that VO&M
              Cost is apportioned according to fuel usage in electric and
            heat).
	- Net Revenue is after
            subtracting Heat
              Production Cost
	- When a unit goes out-of-service the Heat
              Load is scaled down, to zero plus the boiler capability if no
            units are available, to avoid infeasibilities.
	- Cogen Heat Load value is 0
            GJ.
	- CCGT Power to Heat
              Ratio must be defined.
	- Add a generic Constraint for
            the heat balance: H(CGGT) + H (Cogen) = 50 GJ.


H2s:
Contents
1. Introduction
2. CHP Generators
3. Modelling Alternatives
4. CHP Input Properties
5. Non-linear With Operational
          Region
6. Multi-fuel CHP
7. Numerical Examples
8. Heat Storage and Electric
          Boilers
9. References

H3s:
3.1. Single Power-to-heat Ratio
          CHP Unit
3.2. Feasible Operational CHP
          Region
6.1. Waste Heat Market Model
7.1. Example: Single CHP unit
          with Power-to-heat Ratio and Auxiliary boiler
7.2. Example: Two CHP Units for
          the Same District Heating Load Demand
7.3. Example: Waste Heat
          External Market

H5s:
Maximum Electrical Output
Maximum and Minimum Fuel Consumption
Maximum Heat Extraction from Boiler
