Header: Profit Maximization

Table Details:

Paragraphs:
Traditional production cost simulation has the objective function of
          minimizing total system costs, and the price of energy is an outcome.
          In portfolio optimization, some or all of the commodity prices e.g.
          electric prices and/or Reserve prices are 'known', being defined
          either as deterministic or stochastic series. The objective function
          then changes to include revenue as well as costs so overall the
          objective is to maximize profit (value of sales less production cost).

There are two ways to define a price input:

The input price properties are:

In the deterministic case these properties can be defined directly.
          In stochastic modelling you may associate the properties with Variable objects instead. The prices will then be supplied by the Variable
          either from user-defined samples or synthetic samples generated by the
          simulator. The Market class extends the input
          price concept by allowing depth-of-market information to be defined
          i.e. for the price in the market to change as function of the quantity
          sold/purchased.

The Company class reports all
          required financial metrics such as Net Profit. In stochastic optimization (e.g. where ST
            Schedule Stochastic Method = "Stochastic") the objective
          function becomes maximization of expected profit with non-anticipative
          decisions defined by non-anticipativity properties such as Generator
            Unit Commitment Non-anticipativity and Storage
            Trajectory Non-anticipativity . The outcome of this optimization, although more robust than Monte
          Carlo simulation, might still show scenarios where profit is
          unacceptable, even if the probability is low. To control the variance
          of net profit you can enable Company Formulate Risk and define Company Acceptable
            Risk .

See also:
Lists:
	- Using the price input properties on Region ,
            or Reserve .
	- Using Market Objects
	- Region Price
	- Node Price
	- Reserve Price
	- Entity Formulate
              Risk


H2s:
Contents
1. Introduction
2. Price as Input
3. Risk Management
