Header: Renewable Energy Sources

Table Details:
Solar	Solar energy is the most abundant energy source and an
                increasingly important contributor to global energy production.
                Solar power plants are a large collection of interconnected
                solar panels. Solar production is a function of solar intensity
                which varies across the day and seasonally and intermittently
                with weather conditions.	Generator, Storage
                (CSP), Variable
Wind	Wind power is one of the fastest growing renewable energy
                sectors. Wind power production is a function of wind speed which
                is highly variable, depending on weather conditions, location
                and to some extent time of day. To increase reliability, wind
                farms are being built offshore as well as onshore, and offshore
                wind energy could in years to come become dominant way of
                harnessing wind energy.	Generator, Variable
Geothermal	Geothermal energy refers to power extracted from heat stored
                in the Earth. It is mostly used to generate electricity, and in
                some countries also for heating purposes in form of geothermal
                heating. Unlike solar and wind energy geothermal energy doesn't
                suffer from intermittency issue.	Generator
Hydro	Hydropower is renewable energy source that has been used for
                many hundreds of years in form of waterwheels and mills.
                Hydropower is one of the most important renewable energy sources
                globally. Hydropower plants have long lifespan, and relatively
                low maintenance costs since almost everything is automated.
                Hydropower also doesn't suffer from intermittency issue like
                wind and solar power do and ensures constant supply of energy.
                Hydropower is also very efficient energy source.	Generator, Storage, Waterway,
                Variable
Biomass	Biomass refers to biological material deriving from living, or
                recently living organisms such as wood, waste or biofuels.
                Biomass has many different forms, but most of these forms are
                different plant matter grown to generate electricity or produce
                heat.	Generator
Tidal	Tidal energy can be harnessed by turbines underwater powered
                by the movement of the tides. This emerging technology may prove
                an important energy source especially in regions with large tide
                differentials.	Generator, Variable
Solar	Profile	0	Solar Irradiance.csv	-	1
Solar	Lookup x	0		-	1
Solar	Lookup x	0.1		-	2
Solar	Lookup x	0.2		-	3
Solar	Lookup x	0.3		-	4
Solar	Lookup x	0.4		-	5
Solar	Lookup x	0.5		-	6
Solar	Lookup x	0.6		-	7
Solar	Lookup x	0.7		-	8
Solar	Lookup x	0.8		-	9
Solar	Lookup x	0.9		-	10
Solar	Lookup x	1.0		-	11
Solar	Lookup y	0		-	1
Solar	Lookup y	0.1664		-	2
Solar	Lookup y	0.2989		-	3
Solar	Lookup y	0.4145		-	4
Solar	Lookup y	0.5131		-	5
Solar	Lookup y	0.5949		-	6
Solar	Lookup y	0.6596		-	7
Solar	Lookup y	0.7074		-	8
Solar	Lookup y	0.7383		-	9
Solar	Lookup y	0.7522		-	10
Solar	Lookup y	0.7492		-	11
Solar	Units	100	-		
Solar	Max Capacity	1	MW		
Solar	Fixed Load	0	MW	=	Solar
Solar	Fixed Load Global	No	-		
Units	100		-
Max Capacity	1		MW
Rating	0	Solar Generation	MW
Units	0		-
Max Capacity	1		MW
Rating	0	Solar Generation	MW
Firm Capacity	0.15		MW
Max Units Built	100		-
Build Cost	750		$/kW
Economic Life	25		years
WACC	10		%
Units	1	-	-	-	-
Max Capacity	1	-	MW	-	-
Rating	0	-	MW	=	Wind Variable
Units	1	-	-
Max Capacity	200	-	MW
VO&M Charge	5	-	$/MWh

Paragraphs:
Renewable energy sources (RES) are modeled using combinations of
          classes as described in the following table.

Modeling any size of solar from small scale rooftop installations to
          full solar power plants is simple using the Generator class. Resources can be static or dynamic in size and set up for
          optimal expansion with LT Plan .

At the most fundamental level, solar production is determined by:

There are two approaches you can take here. You can model solar
          irradiance and conversion efficiency in detail, or simply model the
          solar generation directly.

Modeling solar irradiance and conversion efficiency is possible using
          the Variable class to define a Profile for the solar irradiance and a look-up table to convert irradiance to
          electrical output. There are many online resources for solar
          irradiance data and conversion efficiency including Renewables
            Ninja . Using a source such as this you can create input like
          that in Table 2. Here the solar irradiance is read from an external Data File . That files contains values
          for each hour of the simulation horizon. The values of Lookup
            x and Lookup y convert
          solar irradiance to electrical output. The solar Generator object would then refer to the Variable as in Table 3.

In this example there is 100 MW of solar generation modeled as 100
          one megawatt units. Note the use of Fixed
            Load which makes the solar generation 'must take' and the
          setting of Fixed Load Global = "no" which means the Fixed Load is interpreted as the load per Unit. To model dispatchable solar i.e. solar that can be turned off if needed, swap out the Fixed
            Load property for Rating .



Table 4 illustrates a simpler approach which ignores the conversion
          from irradiance to electrical output. As in the detailed case, the Units property scales up the Max
            Capacity to give the total Installed
            Capacity while the Rating property, read from a Data File ,
          defines the normalized (values between 0 and 1) solar electrical
          output in each interval of the horizon. For Monte Carlo simulation or
          stochastic optimization you can read the solar generation from a Variable object which in turn reads its expected values from the Data
            File instead, as in Table 3.

When running LT Plan with solar as an
          expansion option define the additional properties as shown in Table 5
          in particular the Max Units
            Built which is the key property for toggling a Generator in/out of the expansion planning optimization. Note the definition of Firm Capacity which
          determines the generator's contribution to Capacity
            Reserves .

Note: If the system is small scale e.g. a single household/industrial unit or micro grid you can
          change the underlying unit of electrical power from the default
          megawatt (MW) to kilowatt (kW) in the Units
            of Data Settings .

Concentrated Solar Power (CSP) systems (also known as concentrated
          solar thermal (CST) systems) are systems that use mirrors or lenses to
          concentrate solar thermal energy onto a small area. Electrical power
          is produced when the concentrated light is converted to heat which
          drives a steam turbine connected to an electrical power generator. In
          addition, the heat can be stored, generally in a molten salt medium,
          and used to drive the steam turbine engine when the sun is not
          shining.

This system can modeled using a Generator connected to a Storage . Power coming
          in from solar radiation is modeled as Natural
            Inflow . Heat loss is modeled as a Spill .
          Losses on start-up of the Generator are modeled with the Head
            Storage Flow at Start property.

Wind generators can be modeled in the same fashion as solar e.g. by a
          generator with Max Capacity of 1 and a Rating (or Rating
            Factor ) read from a Data File directly or via a Variable which
          represents a normalized wind profile. The capacity installed at the
          wind site is then input using the Units property as in Table 6.

Wind is generally more variable than solar and it is important to
          model that intermittency. The Variable class is ideal for this purpose and the example in Table 6 shows how
          the wind generation can be linked to a Variable .
          In this case, the Variable is
          providing normalized wind production data over time. A further step
          would be to base this on raw wind speed and to use a Lookup
            Table to convert wind speed to generation as in Table 2 for the
          solar example.

Geothermal generation is generally more controllable and less
          intermittent and thus is modeled more like conventional thermal
          generation as in Table 7. If there is any variability in the output
          then the Rating property can be
          applied.

Hydro generation models range from simple energy-constrained
          resources to complex multi-stage stochastic optimization of cascading
          river systems. These topics are covered in a series of articles
          beginning with Hydro Classes .

Biomass is modeled similarly to geothermal, except that its
          production is often more constrained e.g. by availability of
          biomass fuel at different times of year, or by schedules for waste
          disposal. Time of year availability can be controlled with the Rating
          property and fixed schedules can be modeled with the Fixed
            Load or Min Load properties.

Tidal energy has similar characteristics to solar in that it is
          predictable with some degree of weather-related variability.

As described above, RES can be intermittent in nature. This
          intermittency implies that conventional generation sources fill the
          'gaps' in RES generation e.g. when the sun is not shining or
          the wind blowing. To correctly capture the physical and financial
          effects of intermittency your simulation should be as high resolution
          as practicable. The resolution of ST Schedule is
          controlled by Horizon Periods
            per Day . It is typical to model systems with high levels of RES
          at resolutions as fine as 5-minutes, but the step size (window over
          which the optimization occurs) needs to be long enough to optimize the
          unit commitment of thermal plant and to optimize hydro and pumped
          storage. For example, you might require an optimization step of one
          week to fully optimize pumped storage and batteries. However, at
          5-minute resolution a week has 168 נ12 = 2016 periods. This can
          lead to very large optimization problems and long run times. There are (at least) two approaches to solving this problem:

LT Plan presents additional challenges
          due to the very long simulation step. Ideally one would run LT Plan in
          either 'Fitted' or 'Sampled' mode as controlled by the Chronology setting. However, it can be difficult to obtain enough resolution and
          have a solvable optimization problem. A solution is to break use
          multiple steps in LT Plan with overlap. The fastest Chronology mode is 'Partial' which uses load duration
          curves to simplify the chronology, but the weakness of this approach
          is that the load curve slicing can place blocks of time with disparate
          RES generation in the same time block. This can cause the optimization
          to overvalue the energy value of RES and underplay the intermittency.
          A solution is to use the Global
            Slicing Block input to ensure that the slicing preserves the
          intermittency to the maximum extent possible.
Lists:
	- The number of panels;
	- solar irradiance;
	- solar panel efficiency; and
	- ambient temperature.


H2s:
Detailed Solar Model
Simplified Solar Model
