Header: Constraint Penalty Price

Table Details:
Units:	$
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	True
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Any Value
Key Property:	No
Description:	Price for violating the constraint where the special value of -1 indicates that no violation is allowed.
RHS Year	150000000	-	1
Penalty Quantity	30000000	-	1
Penalty Quantity	2000000	-	2
Penalty Price	1	$	1
Penalty Price	0.3333	$	2
RHS	100	-	1			
Penalty Price	-1	$	1			PEAK
Penalty Price	100	$	1			OFF-PEAK

Paragraphs:
Constraint Penalty Price is used
          with or without Penalty
            Quantity to create soft constraints.

If only one level of penalty is required then setting the Penalty
          Price property alone will ensure that any violations are priced at
          that level. Setting the Penalty
            Quantity property will limit the amount of constraint violation
          allowed at the given price. Any number of violation tranches (or
          bands) may be specified using pairs of Penalty
            Quantity and Penalty
            Price with increasing band numbers as shown in the example
          below.

The Penalty Price property has the same units as the RHS , e . g . for an interval type constraint on generation,
          the right-hand side will be entered in megawatts so the penalty price
          should be entered in $/ MWh is assumed,
          but for the annual emission limit shown below $/tonne is assumed
          because the right-hand side is in tonnes (thousands of the base unit).

Convexity of penalty price/quantities is assumed, meaning that bands
          order is not forced. It is not required to introduce monotonically
          increasing penalty prices in consecutive bands (as in example below),
          although bands can be reordered by the solver.

Example:

In example above, penalty in band 2 would have a 'higher' priority
          than band 1.

Negative Penalty Price is allowed and creates incentive to violate
          the constraint 'e.g.' to create a water value function on a Storage though you should be careful not to create an unbounded (dual
          infeasible) problem. Additionally, there is a special case of a
          single-band of Penalty Price equal to -1 and this indicates that the
          Constraint is hard. This is useful for enforcing the Constraint
          strictly in selected periods.

Example:

In this example the Constraint is strictly binding during "PEAK"
          periods, and a soft constraint with penalty price 100 during
          "OFF-PEAK". These periods of time are defined using Timeslice objects.

NOTE: Very large or very small values for Penalty Price, e.g. greater than 1E+06 or less than 1E-6, can cause numerical instability
          in the solver and should be avoided.

See also:
Lists:
	- Constraint Price
              Setting
	- Constraint Violation
	- Constraint Penalty
              Cost

