Header: Constraint RHS

Table Details:
Units:	-
Mode:	Input/Output
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Any Value
Key Property:	No
Description:	Constraint RHS constant
RHS	one constraint for every interval/block
RHS Hour	one constraint per hour
RHS Day	one constraint per day
RHS Week	one constraint per week
RHS Month	one constraint per calendar month
RHS Year	one constraint per year
RHS Custom	one constraint spanning any set of periods in the
                planning horizon

Paragraphs:
Constraint RHS (Right Hand Side)
          is the constant term of a constraint. Setting this property defines
          the constraint to be one-per-interval for chronological methods and
          one-per-block for non-chronological methods. Generally, "RHS" is only
          used in ST modeling.

There are versions of RHS for each possible period type of a
          constraint:

The RHS is interpreted as normal units, e . g .
          megawatts for generation. But for day, week, etc the values
          are interpreted as being in 1000's of the base units, e . g. gigawatt hours for generation. NOTE: When summarizing emissions from either fuels or generators the Metric model defines one unit in summary (day, week, month, year)
          as 1000 of the base units, whereas the Imperial U.S. model uses 2000
          units. Thus if you define a >constraint on total emissions over a day, week, month or year you must should
          enter the limit in the appropriate unit e . g . if the
          production rate is in lb/MWh then an annual constraint would be in
          short tons, where one short ton equals 2000 lbs.

Daily constraints (defined with RHS
            Day ) cover days of the simulation where a day starts at the hour
          set by the Horizon Day Beginning attribute (default of midnight). Weekly constraints (defined with RHS Week ) cover weeks as set by
          Horizon Week Beginning attribute, which defaults to the day of week of the first day of the
          planning horizon. Annual constraints (defined with RHS
            Year ) cover years as set by Horizon Year
            Ending attribute, which defaults to years beginning in the same
          month as the planning horizon.

If there are similar constraints that apply to different time periods e . g. a daily limit and a weekly limit, then separate
          constraint objects should be created for each.

Multi-annual constraints and constraints over custom time periods can
          be created using RHS Custom .

The right-hand side is the 'key' property for the Constraint object i . e . if right-hand side is not defined the
          constraint is not considered in the simulation.
Lists:

