Header: Facility Forced Outage Rate

Table Details:
Units:	%
Mode:	Input/Output
Multi-band:	True
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Between 0 And 100
Key Property:	No
Description:	Expected proportion of time the facility is unavailable due to forced outage
Property	Value	Units
Forced Outage Rate	2.5	%
Min Time to Repair	3	hrs
Mean Time to Repair	36	hrs
Max Time to Repair	100	hrs

Paragraphs:
Facility Forced Outage Rate
              sets the expected level of unplanned outages, which result in a
              partial or complete loss of production capacity for a certain
              period of time. See the article Planned
                and Random Outages for details about the repair time
              distribution.

In the example in Table 1 the facility is expected to be out of
              service 2.5% of the time and each time it is out-of-service the
              repair will fall in the range 3-100 hours with the mode of that
              distribution being 36 hours.

The setting can take the following values:

By default then, the Forced Outage Rate above of 2.5% implies
              that on average units will be out of service (OOS) 0.025 x 8760 =
              219 hours per annum. The repair time distribution is constant ( Mean Time to Repair only is given) thus there will be on average 219 / 36 = 6 random
              outage events per annum each of 36 hrs.

Note that Forced Outage Rate is a multi-band property, meaning
              you can define several types of outage with different outage
              duration functions. You can also model partial outages with the Outage Rating property.

It is important to note how Forced Outage Rate acts in
              combination with Units Out .
              Forced Outage Rate is converted to Mean Time Between Failures
              (MTBF) with the formula:

MTBF = (1 - Forced Outage Rate) × Mean Time to Repair /
              Forced Outage Rate

MTBF ignores any pre-defined outage period. For example if Forced
              Outage Rate = 10% and Units Out implies the unit is out-of-service for 25% of the year, in the
              results you will see an annual Forced Outage Rate of 7.5% i.e. the unit will be forced out 10% of the available hours.

You can change this behavior and have the forced outage rate
              automatically adjusted such that the annual rate is unaffected by Units Out with the setting Stochastic EFOR
                Maintenance Adjust .

As output, Forced Outage Rate reports values consistent with the Forced Outage
                Rate Denominator setting i.e. by default, it is
              the percentage of time the unit is out-of-service in any given
              period.

See also:
Lists:
	- Facility Maintenance
              Rate
	- Facility Outage
              Rating

