Header: Facility Fixed Production

Table Details:
Units:	Input: -    Output: ~
Mode:	Input/Output
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Any Value
Key Property:	No
Description:	Fixed (exact) production
Units	1	-	1			
Max Operating Level	250	-	1			
Fixed Production	15	-	1			W2,H1
Fixed Production	25	-	1			W2,H2
Fixed Production	-1	-	1				
Fixed Production	0	-	1	Tuesday, 1 December 2009 06:00:00	Tuesday, 4 May 2010 06:00:00		FIXED
Fixed Production	0	-	1	Friday, 7 May 2010 06:00:00	Saturday, 8 May 2010 06:00:00		FIXED

Paragraphs:
Facility Fixed Production
              defines a fixed profile of Production from the facility i.e. it constrains the Production to be exactly this value subject to availability.

How the value of Fixed Production is interpreted depends on the Fixed Production Global setting. It controls whether the value is across all
              units at the facility or unit-by-unit.

Fixed Production over-rides other constraints such as Min
                Operating Level , Max Ramp
                Up , and Max Ramp Down .

In the example in Table 1 the facility will be dispatched to
              follow the given profile (15 in hour 1 of Monday and 25 on hour 2
              Monday) and beyond that it will follow dispatch according to its
              costs.

In the example in Table 2 the facility will follow a series of
              values defined in the Data File "FIXED" but only for the specific date ranges shown, other times
              the dispatch is optimized normally.

By default the Fixed Production constraint is a hard constraint
              meaning that no violations are allowed. You can optionally make
              the constraint 'soft' and introduce a penalty price with the
              property Fixed
                Production Penalty . The frequency, quantity and cost of
              violations are reported in the properties:

Note that Fixed Production is automatically derated by the Facility Forced Outage Rate and Maintenance Rate in non-chronological simulation phases e.g. when LT
                Plan or MT Schedule are
              using load duration curves. This is done to simulate the effect of
              outages on the ability of the station to meet the Fixed Operating
              Level requirement.

Facility Fixed Production is
              the Production attributable to the Fixed Production constraint, and is defined
              as:

Fixed Production = Production - Fixed
                Production Violation

See also:
Lists:
	- Facility Fixed
                  Production
	- Facility Fixed
                  Production Violation Hours
	- Facility Fixed
                  Production Violation
	- Facility Fixed
                  Production Violation Cost
	- Facility Commit

