Header: Facility Build Cost

Table Details:
Units:	Input: $    Output: $000
Mode:	Input/Output
Multi-band:	True
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Any Value
Key Property:	No
Description:	Cost of building a unit
Factory	Units	0	-
Factory	Max Operating Level	500	-
Factory	FO&M Charge	25,000,000	$
Factory	Max Units Built	1	-
Factory	Build Cost	750,000,000	$
Factory	Economic Life	25	years
Factory	WACC	10	%
Factory	Build Cost	150,000,000	$	1
Factory	Build Cost	150,000,000	$	2
Factory	Build Cost	450,000,000	$	3

Paragraphs:
Facility Build Cost is the
              'overnight cost' of building a unit of the Facility for LT Plan .

The Build Cost can be defined in combination with Economic
                Life and WACC so that LT Plan computes an annuity as
              described in the article LT Plan .
              If Build Cost is defined without these parameters then the entire
              Build Cost is incurred in the period the unit is built. The cost
              is also treated as a lump sum, if the Economic
                Life is entirely inside the planning horizon and the value
              of WACC is not the same as the Discount Rate .

For the example in Table 1, note how the property Max
                Units Built is used to define the number of units that can
              be built. The Facility will not be considered for expansion
              optimization unless this is defined.

Build Cost is a multi-band property. This allows you to model a
              stream of payments leading up to the time of build.

For the example in Table 2 a series of payments in three years
              leads up to the commission date which It also implies the facility
              that  needs three years to be built.

Facility Build Cost as an output
              is the total cost of new builds and is calculated as:

Notice that the reported Build Cost is the 'overnight cost'
              considering the input Build Cost in all bands.

See also:

Note:
Lists:
	- Facility FO&M
                  Charge
	- Facility Lead
                  Time
	- Facility Retirement
              Cost
	- If the Economic Life, Build Cost , and Technical Life are not defined, PLEXOS will assume the Economic Life is 30 years.
	- If the Economic Life is not defined but the Technical Life is defined, the Technical Life is assumed to be the Economic Life of the Facility.
	- If both Economic Life and Technical Life are defined, the Economic Life is set to the lesser of the two values.
	- If the Build Cost is defined but the Technical Life and Economic Life are not, the Economic Life is equal to 1/(Expansion Periods per Year), where the Expansion Periods per Year is determined by the integer value of the Discount Period Type .

