Header: Generator Start Cost

Table Details:
Units:	$
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	True
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	≥0
Key Property:	No
Description:	Cost of starting a unit
Gen	Units	1	1	-
Gen	Max Capacity	1	300	MW
Gen	Min Stable Level	1	150	MW
Gen	Run Up Rate	1	1.0	MW/min.
Gen	Run Up Rate	2	0.8	MW/min.
Gen	Run Up Rate	3	0.5	MW/min.
Gen	Start Cost Time	1	2	hrs
Gen	Start Cost Time	2	4	hrs
Gen	Start Cost Time	3	4	hrs
Gen	Start Cost	1	1000	$
Gen	Start Cost	2	2500	$
Gen	Start Cost	3	3000	$

Paragraphs:
Generator Start Cost is the
          operations and maintenance cost associated with start up of a unit.
          The cost of starts is reported in the property Start
            & Shutdown Cost .

There are two components to the cost associated with unit start up:

The total cost as seen by the optimization is the sum of these two
          components, thus the reported Unit Start Cost will reflect this.

If desired, the Start Cost can be modified by the Marginal
            Loss Factor by setting the Region MLF Adjusts Start Cost property.

Generators cool after being shut down, and this increases the cost of
          re-starting the units. The simulator models this cooling by using
          multi-band Start Cost in combination with Start
            Cost Time .

Example:

In this example the unit is:

Note that start cost time is always the incremental number of hours
          between cooling states. It is not the total time the unit has been
          cooling. This is set up this way to make it easier to avoid the
          mistake of mis-ordering the cooling states. Also, the start cost
          varies linearly between cooling states as in the following
          illustration.

If no initial conditions are defined for a Generator, the start
          decision variable for the first horizon period will not be included in
          the objective function. This allows the optimization to assume a start
          occurred some time in the past and so it can have a free start at the
          start of t=0. If this is not desired, Initial
            Units Generating should be set to 0.

Note:

See also:
Lists:
	- 'hot' for up to two hours after being shutdown and costs $1000 to
            start inside the two hours;
	- 'warm' for a further four hours ( i.e. up to six hours
            after being shutdown) and costs $2500 to start at the six hour
            point;
	- 'cold' after it has cooled for a further four hours ( i.e. 10 hours in total) and costs $3000 to start at the 10 hour point.
	- For Irish SEM: When the Uplift
              Compatibility attribute is set to "Irish SEM" the start cost
            function is modeled as a step function, not the linear interpolation
            shown here.
	- When Start Profile is defined in addition of Start Cost and Star Cost Time bands, the start cost function is modelled as a step function instead of the linear interpolation shown above.
	- Generator Shutdown
              Cost

