Header: Generator Firm Capacity

Table Details:
Units:	MW
Mode:	Input/Output
Multi-band:	True
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Any Value
Key Property:	No
Description:	Contribution of the generator to capacity reserves
Units	100	-					
Max Capacity	1	MW					
Rating	0	MW					wind.csv
Firm Capacity	0.08	MW					

Paragraphs:
By default the capacity provided by each generating unit to
              regional or zonal capacity reserves requirements is determined by
              the Generator Firm
                Capacity Basis setting, which defaults to the Max
                Capacity , but this can be overridden by defining Firm
              Capacity directly.

Firm Capacity is used in the calculation of Region (and/or Zone ) Capacity
                Reserves in both PASA and LT Plan . For LT
                Plan it is the contribution each unit
              installed/built/retired makes towards any Capacity
                Requirement in that Region or Zone .

Example

This is an example input for a wind generator. The total installed capacity in this case is 100 × 1MW = 100MW, but the Firm Capacity is only 8% of this, or 8MW.

Generator Firm Capacity as
              output is based on the input Firm Capacity if that is defined:

Firm Capacity = Firm Capacity × Units

otherwise:

Firm Capacity = Installed
                Capacity or Rated
                Capacity depending on Firm
                Capacity Basis

Firm Capacity can also be modeled with multi-bands. 
              Each consecutive band shows the additional Firm Capacity provided by building additional units in Firm Capacity Unit Count .

Example

In the above example, the first 2 units built have 25 Firm Capacity each (corresponding to Band 1). 
                The next 3 units built have 20 Firm Capacity each (corresponding to Band 2). Bands 3 and 4 follow likewise.

Note: Any units built beyond what is specified in the Unit Count of the final Band each have the Firm Capacity of the final Band.
Lists:

