Header: Generator Fixed Load

Table Details:
Units:	MW
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Any Value
Key Property:	No
Description:	Fixed load
Units	1	-	1			
Max Capacity	250	MW	1			
Offer Quantity	40	MW	1			
Offer Quantity	210	MW	2			
Offer Price	0	$/MWh	1			WEEKDAY
Offer Price	30	$/MWh	1			WEEKEND
Offer Price	30	$/MWh	2			
Fixed Load	15	MW	1			W2,H1
Fixed Load	25	MW	1			W2,H2
Fixed Load	-1	MW	1				
Fixed Load	0	MW	1	Tuesday, 1 December 2009 06:00:00	Tuesday, 4 May 2010 06:00:00		FIXED
Fixed Load	0	MW	1	Friday, 7 May 2010 06:00:00	Saturday, 8 May 2010 06:00:00		FIXED

Paragraphs:
Generator Fixed Load defines a
          fixed profile of Generation from the facility i.e. it constrains the Generation to be exactly this value subject to availability.

How the value of Fixed Load is interpreted depends on the Fixed
            Load Global setting. It controls whether the value is across all
          units at the facility or unit-by-unit.

Fixed Load is commonly used:

Fixed load is treated specially in the simulator. It over-rides other
          constraints such as Min
            Stable Level , Start
            Profile , Max Ramp Up ,
          and Max Ramp Down . When
          offers are defined the Fixed Load over-rides the Offer
            Quantity e.g. if there is insufficient capacity
          offered to meet the Fixed Load the size of the last offer band is
          extended automatically.

How Fixed Load values of zero are interpreted is controlled by the Fixed Load Method setting.
          By default:

This interpretation is based on the rules of some self- commitment
          markets where Fixed Load is used to model units on test for a period
          of time and zero indicates that the unit is not on test. However you
          may wish to enforce Fixed Load value of zero. In this case you will
          need to set Fixed Load
            Method = "Enforce Zero Values". If you want Fixed Load to be
          ignored in some time periods you can set the Fixed Load value to -1.
          Any negative values used for Fixed Load property, will relax the Fixed
          Load constraint and return the generator to normal dispatch
          optimization.

In the example in Table 1 the generator will be dispatched to follow
          the given profile (15 MW in hour 1 of Monday and 25 MW on hour 2
          Monday) while the unit runs up to its minimum stable level, and beyond
          that it will follow dispatch according to its cleared energy offers.

In the example in Table 2 the generator will follow a series of values
          defined in the Data File "FIXED" but
          only for the specific date ranges shown, other times the dispatch is
          optimized normally.

By default the Fixed Load constraint is a hard constraint meaning that
          no violations are allowed. You can optionally make the constraint
          'soft' and introduce a penalty price with the property Fixed
            Load Penalty . The frequency, quantity and cost of violations are
          reported in the properties:

Note that Fixed Load is automatically derated by the Generator Forced Outage Rate and Maintenance Rate in
          non-chronological simulation phases e.g. when LT
            Plan or MT Schedule are
          using load duration curves. This is done to simulate the effect of
          outages on the ability of the station to meet the Fixed Load
          requirement.

See also:
Lists:
	- In benchmarking exercises when you want dispatch to follow exactly
            the historical market dispatch in some or all periods of the
            simulation.
	- To model non-scheduled resources such as solar or wind.
	- if the value is zero the dispatch constraint is ignored, but
	- if the value is non-zero the simulator will dispatch the unit to
            exactly the given level.
	- Generator Fixed
              Load Generation
	- Generator Fixed
              Load Violation Hours
	- Generator Fixed
              Load Violation
	- Generator Fixed
              Load Violation Cost
	- Generator Commit
	- Generator Min
              Load
	- Generator Fixed
              Pump Load

