Header: Generator Units

Table Details:
Units:	-
Mode:	Input/Output
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	≥0
Key Property:	Yes
Description:	Number of installed units
NEW	Units	1	-	1/01/2006
NEW	Units	2	-	1/01/2007
RETIRING	Units	1	-	
RETIRING	Units	0	-	1/01/2010

Paragraphs:
Generator Units is the number
              of installed units at the generation facility. This can simply
              indicate the existence (1) or not (0) of a single unit, or the
              presence of multiple units. For multi-unit facilities the units
              are treated identically and properties such as Max
                Capacity apply to each unit thus there is no need to adjust
              other properties on the generator when the number of units
              changes. The number of units can change via input at any time
              during the simulation horizon and there is no limit to the number
              of units.

The number of units can increase in LT
                Plan according to Max
                Units Built and reduced by Max
                Units Retired . Units can automatically retire if the Technical
                Life property is set.

There is a performance advantage in modeling using multi-unit
              facilities because Generation is assumed to be spread evenly across the Units
                Generating . However, when detailed unit commitment is
              modeled e.g. start up and shutdown, unit commitment is
              tracked unit-by-unit.

Note:

As output, Units reports the net of existing units and those
              built or retired in LT Plan thus:

Units (output) = Units (input) + Units
              Built - Units Retired
Lists:
	- Power Station objects
                group like generators together into multi-unit generators
                automatically creating a single Generator object with properties
                equal to the weighted-average value of the original objects.
	- The Fixed Load property is a value (required Generation )
                across all units in aggregated, unless the facility is an
                expansion candidate, in which case Fixed Load is per unit.

