Header: Generator Price Setting

Table Details:
Units:	Yes/No
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	True (-1)
Validation Rule:	False (0) or True (-1)
Key Property:	No
Description:	Flag if the generator can set price
HYDRO	Price Setting	-	
THERMAL	Price Setting	-1	-

Paragraphs:
Generator Price Setting indicates
          if the generator is allowed to set price (marginal cost of generation)
          i.e. if it can set the pool price when marginal. By default all
          generators can set price. Turning this option off allows for cases
          where, due to market rules, a generator or set of generators is not
          permitted to set the market clearing price even if it is marginal for
          energy at the optimal solution. This property can be used, for
          example, to remove the pricing effects of hydro units and ensure that
          market pricing reflects only thermal incremental costs. This property
          will also remove the generator from any uplift calculation if Region
            Uplift is enabled.

To set the flag simply define the property with value 'Yes'(value =
          -1) on generators that are able to set price or 'No' (value = 0) for
          those units that must not set price. Note that the default value is
          true so it is strictly only necessary to list the generators that
          cannot set price.

Example:

The behaviour of this property changes slightly, depending on the type
          of Region Load
            Settlement Model used. In the case where the Most
            Expensive Dispatched option is used, any Generators that have a value of 'No' for the this option, will simply be excluded
          from setting the price. However in all other Load
            Settlement Model cases setting this property to 'No' for any
          generator, causes the simulation to solve an additional 'pricing' step
          where non-price setting generators' dispatch levels are 'frozen' at
          their optimal levels and the marginal price is determined. Thus this
          option can have an impact on simulation performance.
Lists:

