Header: Generator Commit

Table Details:
Units:	-
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	-1
Validation Rule:	≥-1
Key Property:	No
Description:	Number of units that should be committed
B1	Units	1	-	
B1	Commit	1	-	
B2	Units	1	-	
B2	Commit	1	-	PEAK
B2	Commit	0	-	OFF-PEAK
B3	Units	1	-	
B3	Commit	1	-	PEAK
B3	Commit	-1	-	OFF-PEAK
B4	Units	4	-	
B4	Commit	4	-	PEAK
B4	Must Run Units	2	-	WEEKDAY
B4	Commit	-1	-	WEEKEND

Paragraphs:
Generator Commit predetermines or
          'hardwires' the unit commitment either in all periods or selected
          periods. Commit specifies the number of units that (if available)
          should be committed. A value of -1 for any period means the unit
          commitment is to be optimized in the usual way. It is acceptable to
          mix -1 with non-negative values if you wish to set the commitment
          pattern only in certain time periods.

As with any property its value can change by date and pattern and
          scenario, and even be read from a flat text file. Note that any
          non-negative value of Commit is hard constraint e.g. a value of zero
          means no units are allowed to be committed. If you want to set a
          minimum unit commitment instead of a fixed commitment, use the Must
            Run Units property, as in Table 1.

Generators with the Commit property defined require less unit
          commitment overhead in the optimization. This provides the simulation
          with a significant computational boost, and hence it is desirable to
          set this for all 'baseload' generators, or other generators with fixed
          or semi-fixed commitment schedules. Commit is ignored when a unit is
          out of service so there is no need to account for outages when
          defining the property. Note however that Commit overrides other
          constraints such as Min Down
            Time and Min Up Time i.e. if you define Commit = 1 a unit will be committed if available
          regardless of whether or not Min
            Down Time gets violated and vice versa for Min
            Up Time .

The most common use for Commit is for baseload generators, where one
          would set Commit equal to the number of units i.e. commit
          the unit is it is available. Another application is with intermediate
          type units who might commit during certain hours e.g. peak
          periods, but be either off during off-peak, or freely optimize their
          commitment in those other periods.

In these examples:

See also:


Lists:
	- The single unit at "B1" will be committed in any hour it is
            available.
	- The single unit at "B2" will be committed in all peak hours and
            off in all off-peak hours.
	- The single unit at "B3" will be committed in all peak hours, and
            available for economic commitment outside of those hours.
	- All four units at "B4" will be committed on in peak periods, and
            in weekdays there will be at least two units committed, with
            commitment outside those periods freely optimized.
	- Generator Fixed
              Load

