Header: Global Sampling File

Table Details:
Units:	-
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	True
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	Any Value
Key Property:	No
Description:	Input file for Sampled Chronology in LT plan and/or MT Schedule
Month	Week	Sampled Reduction Index	Reduced Sample Index	First Sample Interval Offset	Reduced Sample Count
1	1	-1	1	0	2
1	2	1	5		
1	3	1			
1	4	1			
1	5	-1			
2	1	3	3	72	
2	2	3	4		
2	3	-1			
2	4	-1			
2	5	4			
3	1	3	2	72	
3	2	-1	3		
3	3	-1			
3	4	2			
3	5	3			
4	1	2	2	144	
4	2	-1	6		
4	3	2			
4	4	2			
4	5	2			
4	6	-1			

Paragraphs:
Global Sampling File provides the input for the sampled Chronology in LT plan and/or MT Schedule. 
		    If Sampling file is entered, PLEXOS will read in user defined reduced sample indices through this CSV file instead of doing sampled reduction internally.

To get the data format of a sampling file, you can make a run with Sample Reduction being turned on under the diagnostic object. 
		  It’s basically a table containing all period indices of reduced samples and mapping of samples to reduced samples.
          Here is an example showing how the Sample Reduction diagnostic file can be like for a 2 weeks per month sampling settting:





Sampling Interval Type , Sample Type and Reduced Sample Count are shown in the first row in the file. For this case,
		  Reduced Sample Index column are the 2 sample weeks being selected for each month while Sample Reduction Index column shows the mapping of other weeks to the selected weeks, with any non-zero values being
          reduced samples. First Sample Interval Offset column only applies to weekly sample type where the first sample is a short week, the days in the week should map to the end part. 
		  In this example, the first week in the 2nd month has 4 days, so there should be an offset with 3 days (72 intervals) from last month. The same logic applies to the 3rd and 4th month and so on. 
		  For other sample types, the offset should be zero.

Users can come up with their own sampling files following the data format provided through the diagnostics. The files should be named according to the Sampling File input, which is a non-negative number. 
			If "0" is entered for Sampling File, then we expect a corresponding file “Sampling_0.csv” saved in the “Sampled Chronology” folder that locates in the same place as the input XML file.
			Users can specify 2 bands for Sampling File input with band 1 for LT Plan and band 2 for MT Schedule, no matter if the other phase is enabled or not.

With the following input being specified,



the corresponding Sampling CSV files are expected locating in the desired folder, otherwise it will automatically run sample reduction algorithm.



NOTE: When using sampling file for sampled chronology in LT plan and/or MT Schedule, user needs to select chrnology = "Sampled" and also define Sampling Interval , Sample Type and Reduced Sample Count in the phase object,
		    they must match the inputs from the file. It also works for the yearly sampling in LT Plan simulation phase with Sample Year Count being set.
Lists:

