Header: MT Schedule Index

Table Details:
At a Time	-	0	≥0	Number of day/week/months/years in each MT Schedule simulation step.
Block Count	-	3	≥1	Number of load duration curve blocks in each day/week/month.
Chronology	-	2	In (2,3,4,5)	Type of chronology used
Discount Period Type	-	2	In (1,2,3,4,6,7)	A unique discount factor will be computed for each of these periods.
Discount Rate	%	0	≥0	Discount rate.
End Effects Method	-	1	In (0,1)	Method used to account for end of horizon discounting
Last Block Count	-	0	≥0	Number of load duration curve blocks in the last load duration curve of the horizon, or zero if the same as [Block Count].
LDC Pin Bottom	-	-1	≥-1	Number of points at the bottom of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks.
LDC Pin Top	-	-1	≥-1	Number of points at the top of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks.
LDC Slicing Method	-	0	In (0,1)	Method used to slice the LDC into blocks.
LDC Type	-	1	In (1,2,3,4,7)	Create one LDC for each period of this type in the horizon.
LDC Weight a	-	0		LDC weighting polynomial function 'a' parameter.
LDC Weight b	-	1		LDC weighting polynomial function 'b' parameter.
LDC Weight c	-	0		LDC weighting polynomial function 'c' parameter.
LDC Weight d	-	0		LDC weighting polynomial function 'd' parameter.
New Entry Capacity Mechanism	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Capacity payment mechanism.
New Entry Driver	-	0	In (0,1,2,3)	New entry driver.
New Entry Time Lag	month	12	≥0	Lag time for entrepreneurial entry.
Outage Increment	MW	10	≥1	Generator outage bin size in convolution
Pricing Method	-	0	In (0,1)	Type of generator pricing used in MT Schedule
Reduced Sample Count	-	4	≥1	Statistically reduce the [Sample Type] periods to at most this number of samples each year.
Reduction Relative Accuracy	-	1	Between 0 And 1	Stop sample reduction when the accuracy of the reduced sample set reaches this level.
Reliability Min Contiguous Block	h	0	≥0	For reliability based sampled chronology ensure sampled periods are contained in contiguous blocks of at least this many hours
Sample Type	-	2	In (1,2,3,4)	For [Chronology] = "Sampled", take this type of sample.
Sampled Block Count	-	0	≥0	Number of blocks modeled in each sample period (day/week) where zero means the original number of intervals
Sampling Interval	-	4	In (-1,2,3,4)	For Chronology = "Sampled", take [Sample Type] samples in each of these intervals of time.
Start Cost Amortization Period	h	0	≥0	Number of hours over which generator start costs are amortized
Step Link Mode	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Controls how the solutions of each step are linked together.
Step Type	-	4	In (1,2,3,4,7)	Each simulation step will span steps of this type.
Stochastic Algorithm	-	0	In (0,1)	Algorithm invoked by the Stochastic Method when a scenario tree is present
Stochastic Method	-	0	In (0,1,2,3)	Stochastic optimization method for MT Schedule
Storage Formulate Head Effects	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If storage head effects should be formulated in MT Schedule.
Use Effective Load Approach	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If MT Schedule uses the effective load approach
Write Bridge Text Files	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If bridge information such as constraint decomposition and storage targets should be written to text files

Paragraphs:
MT Schedule Attributes Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description At a Time - 0 ≥0 Number of day/week/months/years in each MT Schedule simulation step. Block Count - 3 ≥1 Number of load duration curve blocks in each day/week/month. Chronology - 2 In (2,3,4,5) Type of chronology used Discount Period Type - 2 In (1,2,3,4,6,7) A unique discount factor will be computed for each of these periods. Discount Rate % 0 ≥0 Discount rate. End Effects Method - 1 In (0,1) Method used to account for end of horizon discounting Last Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of load duration curve blocks in the last load duration curve of the horizon, or zero if the same as [Block Count]. LDC Pin Bottom - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the bottom of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Pin Top - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the top of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Slicing Method - 0 In (0,1) Method used to slice the LDC into blocks. LDC Type - 1 In (1,2,3,4,7) Create one LDC for each period of this type in the horizon. LDC Weight a - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'a' parameter. LDC Weight b - 1 LDC weighting polynomial function 'b' parameter. LDC Weight c - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'c' parameter. LDC Weight d - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'd' parameter. New Entry Capacity Mechanism - 0 In (0,1,2) Capacity payment mechanism. New Entry Driver - 0 In (0,1,2,3) New entry driver. New Entry Time Lag month 12 ≥0 Lag time for entrepreneurial entry. Outage Increment MW 10 ≥1 Generator outage bin size in convolution Pricing Method - 0 In (0,1) Type of generator pricing used in MT Schedule Reduced Sample Count - 4 ≥1 Statistically reduce the [Sample Type] periods to at most this number of samples each year. Reduction Relative Accuracy - 1 Between 0 And 1 Stop sample reduction when the accuracy of the reduced sample set reaches this level. Reliability Min Contiguous Block h 0 ≥0 For reliability based sampled chronology ensure sampled periods are contained in contiguous blocks of at least this many hours Sample Type - 2 In (1,2,3,4) For [Chronology] = "Sampled", take this type of sample. Sampled Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of blocks modeled in each sample period (day/week) where zero means the original number of intervals Sampling Interval - 4 In (-1,2,3,4) For Chronology = "Sampled", take [Sample Type] samples in each of these intervals of time. Start Cost Amortization Period h 0 ≥0 Number of hours over which generator start costs are amortized Step Link Mode - 0 In (0,1,2) Controls how the solutions of each step are linked together. Step Type - 4 In (1,2,3,4,7) Each simulation step will span steps of this type. Stochastic Algorithm - 0 In (0,1) Algorithm invoked by the Stochastic Method when a scenario tree is present Stochastic Method - 0 In (0,1,2,3) Stochastic optimization method for MT Schedule Storage Formulate Head Effects Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If storage head effects should be formulated in MT Schedule. Use Effective Load Approach Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If MT Schedule uses the effective load approach Write Bridge Text Files Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If bridge information such as constraint decomposition and storage targets should be written to text files

Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description At a Time - 0 ≥0 Number of day/week/months/years in each MT Schedule simulation step. Block Count - 3 ≥1 Number of load duration curve blocks in each day/week/month. Chronology - 2 In (2,3,4,5) Type of chronology used Discount Period Type - 2 In (1,2,3,4,6,7) A unique discount factor will be computed for each of these periods. Discount Rate % 0 ≥0 Discount rate. End Effects Method - 1 In (0,1) Method used to account for end of horizon discounting Last Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of load duration curve blocks in the last load duration curve of the horizon, or zero if the same as [Block Count]. LDC Pin Bottom - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the bottom of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Pin Top - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the top of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Slicing Method - 0 In (0,1) Method used to slice the LDC into blocks. LDC Type - 1 In (1,2,3,4,7) Create one LDC for each period of this type in the horizon. LDC Weight a - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'a' parameter. LDC Weight b - 1 LDC weighting polynomial function 'b' parameter. LDC Weight c - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'c' parameter. LDC Weight d - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'd' parameter. New Entry Capacity Mechanism - 0 In (0,1,2) Capacity payment mechanism. New Entry Driver - 0 In (0,1,2,3) New entry driver. New Entry Time Lag month 12 ≥0 Lag time for entrepreneurial entry. Outage Increment MW 10 ≥1 Generator outage bin size in convolution Pricing Method - 0 In (0,1) Type of generator pricing used in MT Schedule Reduced Sample Count - 4 ≥1 Statistically reduce the [Sample Type] periods to at most this number of samples each year. Reduction Relative Accuracy - 1 Between 0 And 1 Stop sample reduction when the accuracy of the reduced sample set reaches this level. Reliability Min Contiguous Block h 0 ≥0 For reliability based sampled chronology ensure sampled periods are contained in contiguous blocks of at least this many hours Sample Type - 2 In (1,2,3,4) For [Chronology] = "Sampled", take this type of sample. Sampled Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of blocks modeled in each sample period (day/week) where zero means the original number of intervals Sampling Interval - 4 In (-1,2,3,4) For Chronology = "Sampled", take [Sample Type] samples in each of these intervals of time. Start Cost Amortization Period h 0 ≥0 Number of hours over which generator start costs are amortized Step Link Mode - 0 In (0,1,2) Controls how the solutions of each step are linked together. Step Type - 4 In (1,2,3,4,7) Each simulation step will span steps of this type. Stochastic Algorithm - 0 In (0,1) Algorithm invoked by the Stochastic Method when a scenario tree is present Stochastic Method - 0 In (0,1,2,3) Stochastic optimization method for MT Schedule Storage Formulate Head Effects Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If storage head effects should be formulated in MT Schedule. Use Effective Load Approach Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If MT Schedule uses the effective load approach Write Bridge Text Files Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If bridge information such as constraint decomposition and storage targets should be written to text files
Lists:

