Header: LT Plan Index

Table Details:
Allow Capacity Sharing	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If regions/zones can share capacity reserves to meet requirements
Always Annualize Build Cost	-	0	In (0,-1)	If [Build Cost] is always annualized even when an option retires inside the horizon
At a Time	-	0	≥0	Number of years solved in each step of LT Plan
Block Count	-	12	≥1	Number of load duration curve blocks in each day/week/month.
Bridge Constraints	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If LT Plan should bridge (decompose) constraints for subsequent simulation phases
Bridge Storage	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If LT Plan should bridge (decompose) storage for subsequent simulation phases
Capacity Payments Enabled	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If payments are made for generation capacity
Chronology	-	2	In (2,3,4)	Type of chronology used
Co-optimize Unit Commitment	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If unit commitment is co-optimized rather than sequentially optimized with expansion
Compute Multi-area Reliability Indices	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	Master switch for computation of reliability indices LOLP, LOLE, etc across multiple areas.
Compute Reliability Indices	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	Master switch for computation of reliability indices LOLP, LOLE, etc.
Depreciation Method	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Depreciation method for computing annuities
Discount Period Type	-	4	In (1,2,3,4,6,7)	A unique discount factor and expansion decisions will be computed for each of these periods.
Discount Rate	%	0	≥0	Discount rate.
End Effects Method	-	1	In (0,1)	Method used to account for end of horizon effects
Inflation Rate	%	0		Inflation rate used in depreciation calculations
Integerization Horizon	yr	-1	≥-1	Number of years over which the expansion decisions are integerized
Last Block Count	-	0	≥0	Number of load duration curve blocks in the last load duration curve of the horizon, or zero if the same as [Block Count].
LDC Pin Bottom	-	-1	≥-1	Number of points at the bottom of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks.
LDC Pin Top	-	-1	≥-1	Number of points at the top of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks.
LDC Slicing Method	-	0	In (0,1)	Method used to slice the LDC into blocks.
LDC Type	-	3	In (1,2,3,4,7)	One LDC is created for each period of this type in horizon.
LDC Weight a	-	0		LDC weighting polynomial function 'a' parameter.
LDC Weight b	-	1		LDC weighting polynomial function 'b' parameter.
LDC Weight c	-	0		LDC weighting polynomial function 'c' parameter.
LDC Weight d	-	0		LDC weighting polynomial function 'd' parameter.
Limit Capital Cost Perpetuity by Economic Life	-	-1	In (0,-1)	With perpetuity end effect, if annuity calculation should extend beyond the end of the horizon up to the Economic Life
Maintenance Sculpting	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If LT Plan should sculpt maintenance derating according to the inverse of load.
Optimality	-	2	In (0,1,2)	LT Plan integerization scheme.
Optimize Expansion	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If expansion is optimized by this simulation phase
Outage Increment	MW	10	≥1	Generator outage bin size in convolution
Overlap	-	0	≥-1	Number of years overlap between steps where -1 invokes Rolling Horizon
Pricing Method	-	0	In (0,1)	Type of generator pricing used in LT Plan.
Reduced Sample Count	-	4	≥1	Statistically reduce the [Sample Type] periods to at most this number of samples each year.
Reduction Relative Accuracy	-	1	Between 0 And 1	Stop sample reduction when the accuracy of the reduced sample set reaches this level.
Sample Type	-	2	In (1,2,3,4)	For Chronology = "Sampled", take this type of sample.
Sample Year Count	-	0	≥0	For [Chronology] = "Sampled", first select this many years then sample within only those years.
Sampled Block Count	-	0	≥0	Number of blocks modeled in each sample period (day/week) where zero means the original number of intervals
Sampling Interval	-	4	In (-1,2,3,4,7)	For Chronology = "Sampled", take [Sample Type] samples in each of these intervals of time.
Solution Count	-	1	≥1	Maximum number of solutions produced in the solution hierarchy
Solution Quality	%	0	Between 0 And 100	Continue producing solutions up to Solution Count or when Solution Quality falls to this level
Start Cost Amortization Period	h	0	≥0	Number of hours over which generator start costs are amortized
Stochastic Method	-	0	In (0,1,2,3)	Stochastic optimization method for LT Plan
Storage Formulate Head Effects	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If storage head effects should be formulated in LT Plan
Storage Restart	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If recycled storage should restart from their initial volume at the start of each capacity optimization period
Tax Rate	%	0		Tax rate used to compute tax credits
Use Effective Load Approach	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If LT Plan uses the effective load approach
Write Expansion Plan Text Files	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If expansion plans should be written to text files

Paragraphs:
LT Plan Attributes Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description Allow Capacity Sharing Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If regions/zones can share capacity reserves to meet requirements Always Annualize Build Cost - 0 In (0,-1) If [Build Cost] is always annualized even when an option retires inside the horizon At a Time - 0 ≥0 Number of years solved in each step of LT Plan Block Count - 12 ≥1 Number of load duration curve blocks in each day/week/month. Bridge Constraints Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If LT Plan should bridge (decompose) constraints for subsequent simulation phases Bridge Storage Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If LT Plan should bridge (decompose) storage for subsequent simulation phases Capacity Payments Enabled Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If payments are made for generation capacity Chronology - 2 In (2,3,4) Type of chronology used Co-optimize Unit Commitment Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If unit commitment is co-optimized rather than sequentially optimized with expansion Compute Multi-area Reliability Indices Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) Master switch for computation of reliability indices LOLP, LOLE, etc across multiple areas. Compute Reliability Indices Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) Master switch for computation of reliability indices LOLP, LOLE, etc. Depreciation Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Depreciation method for computing annuities Discount Period Type - 4 In (1,2,3,4,6,7) A unique discount factor and expansion decisions will be computed for each of these periods. Discount Rate % 0 ≥0 Discount rate. End Effects Method - 1 In (0,1) Method used to account for end of horizon effects Inflation Rate % 0 Inflation rate used in depreciation calculations Integerization Horizon yr -1 ≥-1 Number of years over which the expansion decisions are integerized Last Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of load duration curve blocks in the last load duration curve of the horizon, or zero if the same as [Block Count]. LDC Pin Bottom - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the bottom of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Pin Top - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the top of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Slicing Method - 0 In (0,1) Method used to slice the LDC into blocks. LDC Type - 3 In (1,2,3,4,7) One LDC is created for each period of this type in horizon. LDC Weight a - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'a' parameter. LDC Weight b - 1 LDC weighting polynomial function 'b' parameter. LDC Weight c - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'c' parameter. LDC Weight d - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'd' parameter. Limit Capital Cost Perpetuity by Economic Life - -1 In (0,-1) With perpetuity end effect, if annuity calculation should extend beyond the end of the horizon up to the Economic Life Maintenance Sculpting Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If LT Plan should sculpt maintenance derating according to the inverse of load. Optimality - 2 In (0,1,2) LT Plan integerization scheme. Optimize Expansion Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If expansion is optimized by this simulation phase Outage Increment MW 10 ≥1 Generator outage bin size in convolution Overlap - 0 ≥-1 Number of years overlap between steps where -1 invokes Rolling Horizon Pricing Method - 0 In (0,1) Type of generator pricing used in LT Plan. Reduced Sample Count - 4 ≥1 Statistically reduce the [Sample Type] periods to at most this number of samples each year. Reduction Relative Accuracy - 1 Between 0 And 1 Stop sample reduction when the accuracy of the reduced sample set reaches this level. Sample Type - 2 In (1,2,3,4) For Chronology = "Sampled", take this type of sample. Sample Year Count - 0 ≥0 For [Chronology] = "Sampled", first select this many years then sample within only those years. Sampled Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of blocks modeled in each sample period (day/week) where zero means the original number of intervals Sampling Interval - 4 In (-1,2,3,4,7) For Chronology = "Sampled", take [Sample Type] samples in each of these intervals of time. Solution Count - 1 ≥1 Maximum number of solutions produced in the solution hierarchy Solution Quality % 0 Between 0 And 100 Continue producing solutions up to Solution Count or when Solution Quality falls to this level Start Cost Amortization Period h 0 ≥0 Number of hours over which generator start costs are amortized Stochastic Method - 0 In (0,1,2,3) Stochastic optimization method for LT Plan Storage Formulate Head Effects Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If storage head effects should be formulated in LT Plan Storage Restart Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If recycled storage should restart from their initial volume at the start of each capacity optimization period Tax Rate % 0 Tax rate used to compute tax credits Use Effective Load Approach Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If LT Plan uses the effective load approach Write Expansion Plan Text Files Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If expansion plans should be written to text files

Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description Allow Capacity Sharing Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If regions/zones can share capacity reserves to meet requirements Always Annualize Build Cost - 0 In (0,-1) If [Build Cost] is always annualized even when an option retires inside the horizon At a Time - 0 ≥0 Number of years solved in each step of LT Plan Block Count - 12 ≥1 Number of load duration curve blocks in each day/week/month. Bridge Constraints Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If LT Plan should bridge (decompose) constraints for subsequent simulation phases Bridge Storage Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If LT Plan should bridge (decompose) storage for subsequent simulation phases Capacity Payments Enabled Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If payments are made for generation capacity Chronology - 2 In (2,3,4) Type of chronology used Co-optimize Unit Commitment Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If unit commitment is co-optimized rather than sequentially optimized with expansion Compute Multi-area Reliability Indices Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) Master switch for computation of reliability indices LOLP, LOLE, etc across multiple areas. Compute Reliability Indices Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) Master switch for computation of reliability indices LOLP, LOLE, etc. Depreciation Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Depreciation method for computing annuities Discount Period Type - 4 In (1,2,3,4,6,7) A unique discount factor and expansion decisions will be computed for each of these periods. Discount Rate % 0 ≥0 Discount rate. End Effects Method - 1 In (0,1) Method used to account for end of horizon effects Inflation Rate % 0 Inflation rate used in depreciation calculations Integerization Horizon yr -1 ≥-1 Number of years over which the expansion decisions are integerized Last Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of load duration curve blocks in the last load duration curve of the horizon, or zero if the same as [Block Count]. LDC Pin Bottom - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the bottom of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Pin Top - -1 ≥-1 Number of points at the top of the LDC that are pinned and cannot be aggregated into blocks. LDC Slicing Method - 0 In (0,1) Method used to slice the LDC into blocks. LDC Type - 3 In (1,2,3,4,7) One LDC is created for each period of this type in horizon. LDC Weight a - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'a' parameter. LDC Weight b - 1 LDC weighting polynomial function 'b' parameter. LDC Weight c - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'c' parameter. LDC Weight d - 0 LDC weighting polynomial function 'd' parameter. Limit Capital Cost Perpetuity by Economic Life - -1 In (0,-1) With perpetuity end effect, if annuity calculation should extend beyond the end of the horizon up to the Economic Life Maintenance Sculpting Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If LT Plan should sculpt maintenance derating according to the inverse of load. Optimality - 2 In (0,1,2) LT Plan integerization scheme. Optimize Expansion Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If expansion is optimized by this simulation phase Outage Increment MW 10 ≥1 Generator outage bin size in convolution Overlap - 0 ≥-1 Number of years overlap between steps where -1 invokes Rolling Horizon Pricing Method - 0 In (0,1) Type of generator pricing used in LT Plan. Reduced Sample Count - 4 ≥1 Statistically reduce the [Sample Type] periods to at most this number of samples each year. Reduction Relative Accuracy - 1 Between 0 And 1 Stop sample reduction when the accuracy of the reduced sample set reaches this level. Sample Type - 2 In (1,2,3,4) For Chronology = "Sampled", take this type of sample. Sample Year Count - 0 ≥0 For [Chronology] = "Sampled", first select this many years then sample within only those years. Sampled Block Count - 0 ≥0 Number of blocks modeled in each sample period (day/week) where zero means the original number of intervals Sampling Interval - 4 In (-1,2,3,4,7) For Chronology = "Sampled", take [Sample Type] samples in each of these intervals of time. Solution Count - 1 ≥1 Maximum number of solutions produced in the solution hierarchy Solution Quality % 0 Between 0 And 100 Continue producing solutions up to Solution Count or when Solution Quality falls to this level Start Cost Amortization Period h 0 ≥0 Number of hours over which generator start costs are amortized Stochastic Method - 0 In (0,1,2,3) Stochastic optimization method for LT Plan Storage Formulate Head Effects Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If storage head effects should be formulated in LT Plan Storage Restart Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If recycled storage should restart from their initial volume at the start of each capacity optimization period Tax Rate % 0 Tax rate used to compute tax credits Use Effective Load Approach Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If LT Plan uses the effective load approach Write Expansion Plan Text Files Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If expansion plans should be written to text files
Lists:

