Header: Competition Index

Table Details:
Bertrand Detect Active Ramp Constraints	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If the Bertrand algorithm should detect when generators are constrained due to ramping.
Bertrand OOMOD Enabled	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If the Bertrand algorithm should seek to maximize profits by out-of-merit-order dispatch.
Contracts Handoff Point	-	0	In (0,1)	Location of hand-off for setting of contract settlement price
Contracts Optimize Offers	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If contract position should be considered when offering generation.
Contracts Settlement Method	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Method of calculating contract quantities for settlement
Default Elasticity	$/MWh2 (Metric), $/MWh/MWh (U.S. Imperial)	-0.2	<0	Default price elasticity of demand
Demand Scaling	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If Nash-Cournot result scales input loads to reflect price elasticity of demand.
Epsilon	-	0.01	>0	Minimum margin between competing offer prices or between offer prices and the price cap.
Equilibrium Model	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Equilibrium Model. Optimizes generation / pricing position of portfolios over the short or medium term.
Mark-up Min Stable Level	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If mark-up should be applied to the full range of unit output including [Min Stable Level].
Market Trading Format	-	1	In (0,1)	Trading format for Cournot model (Bilateral=No Arbitrage, POOLCO=With Arbitrage).
No Load Cost Mark-up	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If marginal cost bid should be adjusted to account for no-load cost
Non Price Setting Enabled	Yes/No	-1	In (0,-1)	If non-price setting plant should be fixed prior to the final price calculation
Pricing Strategy	-	0	In (0,1,2,3)	The Bertrand Competition strategy used to set offer/bid prices each interval.
Revenue Targeting Iterations	-	1	≥1	Number of iterations used to recover fixed costs.
Revenue Targeting Method	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Method used in adjusting offers to meet revenue targets.
RSI Bid-Cost Mark-up Method	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Method used in applying calculated bid cost markups to companies then generating units.
RSI Enabled	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If Residual Supply Index method is used.
RSI Enabled for Load Bids	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If Residual Supply Index method is used for Load Bids.
Start Cost Mark-up	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If mark-ups are calculated to recover generator start cost
Start Cost Mark-up Method	-	0	In (0,1)	Algorithm used to apply start cost mark-ups
Start Cost Mark-up Production Bands	-	100	≥1	Number of bands of production used in recovery of a start cost across each window
Start Cost Mark-up Window	h	24		Number of hours over which a start cost should be recovered using mark-up on production

Paragraphs:
Competition Attributes Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description Bertrand Detect Active Ramp Constraints Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If the Bertrand algorithm should detect when generators are constrained due to ramping. Bertrand OOMOD Enabled Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If the Bertrand algorithm should seek to maximize profits by out-of-merit-order dispatch. Contracts Handoff Point - 0 In (0,1) Location of hand-off for setting of contract settlement price Contracts Optimize Offers Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If contract position should be considered when offering generation. Contracts Settlement Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method of calculating contract quantities for settlement Default Elasticity $/MWh2 (Metric), $/MWh/MWh (U.S. Imperial) -0.2 <0 Default price elasticity of demand Demand Scaling Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If Nash-Cournot result scales input loads to reflect price elasticity of demand. Epsilon - 0.01 >0 Minimum margin between competing offer prices or between offer prices and the price cap. Equilibrium Model - 0 In (0,1,2) Equilibrium Model. Optimizes generation / pricing position of portfolios over the short or medium term. Mark-up Min Stable Level Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If mark-up should be applied to the full range of unit output including [Min Stable Level]. Market Trading Format - 1 In (0,1) Trading format for Cournot model (Bilateral=No Arbitrage, POOLCO=With Arbitrage). No Load Cost Mark-up Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If marginal cost bid should be adjusted to account for no-load cost Non Price Setting Enabled Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If non-price setting plant should be fixed prior to the final price calculation Pricing Strategy - 0 In (0,1,2,3) The Bertrand Competition strategy used to set offer/bid prices each interval. Revenue Targeting Iterations - 1 ≥1 Number of iterations used to recover fixed costs. Revenue Targeting Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method used in adjusting offers to meet revenue targets. RSI Bid-Cost Mark-up Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method used in applying calculated bid cost markups to companies then generating units. RSI Enabled Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If Residual Supply Index method is used. RSI Enabled for Load Bids Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If Residual Supply Index method is used for Load Bids. Start Cost Mark-up Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If mark-ups are calculated to recover generator start cost Start Cost Mark-up Method - 0 In (0,1) Algorithm used to apply start cost mark-ups Start Cost Mark-up Production Bands - 100 ≥1 Number of bands of production used in recovery of a start cost across each window Start Cost Mark-up Window h 24 Number of hours over which a start cost should be recovered using mark-up on production

Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description Bertrand Detect Active Ramp Constraints Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If the Bertrand algorithm should detect when generators are constrained due to ramping. Bertrand OOMOD Enabled Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If the Bertrand algorithm should seek to maximize profits by out-of-merit-order dispatch. Contracts Handoff Point - 0 In (0,1) Location of hand-off for setting of contract settlement price Contracts Optimize Offers Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If contract position should be considered when offering generation. Contracts Settlement Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method of calculating contract quantities for settlement Default Elasticity $/MWh2 (Metric), $/MWh/MWh (U.S. Imperial) -0.2 <0 Default price elasticity of demand Demand Scaling Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If Nash-Cournot result scales input loads to reflect price elasticity of demand. Epsilon - 0.01 >0 Minimum margin between competing offer prices or between offer prices and the price cap. Equilibrium Model - 0 In (0,1,2) Equilibrium Model. Optimizes generation / pricing position of portfolios over the short or medium term. Mark-up Min Stable Level Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If mark-up should be applied to the full range of unit output including [Min Stable Level]. Market Trading Format - 1 In (0,1) Trading format for Cournot model (Bilateral=No Arbitrage, POOLCO=With Arbitrage). No Load Cost Mark-up Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If marginal cost bid should be adjusted to account for no-load cost Non Price Setting Enabled Yes/No -1 In (0,-1) If non-price setting plant should be fixed prior to the final price calculation Pricing Strategy - 0 In (0,1,2,3) The Bertrand Competition strategy used to set offer/bid prices each interval. Revenue Targeting Iterations - 1 ≥1 Number of iterations used to recover fixed costs. Revenue Targeting Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method used in adjusting offers to meet revenue targets. RSI Bid-Cost Mark-up Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method used in applying calculated bid cost markups to companies then generating units. RSI Enabled Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If Residual Supply Index method is used. RSI Enabled for Load Bids Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If Residual Supply Index method is used for Load Bids. Start Cost Mark-up Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If mark-ups are calculated to recover generator start cost Start Cost Mark-up Method - 0 In (0,1) Algorithm used to apply start cost mark-ups Start Cost Mark-up Production Bands - 100 ≥1 Number of bands of production used in recovery of a start cost across each window Start Cost Mark-up Window h 24 Number of hours over which a start cost should be recovered using mark-up on production
Lists:

