Header: Data File Index

Table Details:
Base Year	-	0	≥0	Base year for mapping data from a file with month, day and period but no year
Datetime Convention	-	0	In (0,1)	Convention used when reading DATETIME.
Decimal Places	-	0	≥0	Number of decimal places in output written to text files
Downscaling Method	-	-1	In (-1,0,1,2,3,4)	Method used to downscale data e.g. from 5-minute to hourly resolution.
Enabled	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	If the Data File is enabled for build in the next pass
Growth Period	-	4	In (1,3,4,7)	Cycle over which the growth algorithm matches energy targets (day, month, year, quarter)
Historical Period Type	-	2	In (2,3)	Take samples at each of these period types
Historical Sampling	Yes/No	0	In (0,-1)	Sample data from this file between the Year From and Year To
Historical Year Ending	-	12	Between 1 And 12	Month that years end in the historical data
Historical Year From	-	0	≥0	First year read for historical sampling
Historical Year Start	-	0	≥0	Start year for historical sampling within the range Year From and Year To
Historical Year To	-	0	≥0	Last year read for historical sampling
Locale	-	0	≥0	The numeric index of the locale that should be used to read the file.
Method	-	1	In (0,1,2,3)	Method used to align maximum (and minimum if defined) and energy values
Missing Value Method	-	0	In (0,1,2)	Method used to fill missing values when reading Data Files
Periods per Day	-	0	Between 0 And 86400	Number of periods per day for Data Files using the Period column
Relative Growth at Min	%	0		Relative growth at the lowest end of the LDC for Method = Quadratic
Shape Distortion	-	0	≥0	Distortion of the original duration curve shape as a function of the difference in maximum and energy growth rates.
Time Shift	h	0		Number of hours to shift data in time when interpreting dates where a positive value means the data are from a time zone that is behind the 'reference' time zone.
Upscaling Method	-	-1	In (-1,0,1,2)	Method used to upscale data e.g. from hourly to 5-minute resolution.
Week Beginning	-	0	Between -1 And 7	Start day for mapping file data to weeks (0=automatic, 1-7=weekday, -1=hydro weeks)
Base Profile	-	False	0		False	Base profile for use in creating new profiles
Energy	-	False	0		False	Energy of the created profile
Filename	-	True	0		False	Data file used in the simulation
Holiday	Yes/No	True	0	In (0,-1)	False	Flag for holiday period that must be preserved
Max Value	-	False	1E+30		False	Maximum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm.
Maximum	-	False	0		False	Maximum value of the created profile
Min Value	-	False	-1E+30		False	Minimum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm.
Minimum	-	False	0		False	Minimum value of the created profile

Paragraphs:
Data File Attributes Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description Base Year - 0 ≥0 Base year for mapping data from a file with month, day and period but no year Datetime Convention - 0 In (0,1) Convention used when reading DATETIME. Decimal Places - 0 ≥0 Number of decimal places in output written to text files Downscaling Method - -1 In (-1,0,1,2,3,4) Method used to downscale data e.g. from 5-minute to hourly resolution. Enabled Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If the Data File is enabled for build in the next pass Growth Period - 4 In (1,3,4,7) Cycle over which the growth algorithm matches energy targets (day, month, year, quarter) Historical Period Type - 2 In (2,3) Take samples at each of these period types Historical Sampling Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) Sample data from this file between the Year From and Year To Historical Year Ending - 12 Between 1 And 12 Month that years end in the historical data Historical Year From - 0 ≥0 First year read for historical sampling Historical Year Start - 0 ≥0 Start year for historical sampling within the range Year From and Year To Historical Year To - 0 ≥0 Last year read for historical sampling Locale - 0 ≥0 The numeric index of the locale that should be used to read the file. Method - 1 In (0,1,2,3) Method used to align maximum (and minimum if defined) and energy values Missing Value Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method used to fill missing values when reading Data Files Periods per Day - 0 Between 0 And 86400 Number of periods per day for Data Files using the Period column Relative Growth at Min % 0 Relative growth at the lowest end of the LDC for Method = Quadratic Shape Distortion - 0 ≥0 Distortion of the original duration curve shape as a function of the difference in maximum and energy growth rates. Time Shift h 0 Number of hours to shift data in time when interpreting dates where a positive value means the data are from a time zone that is behind the 'reference' time zone. Upscaling Method - -1 In (-1,0,1,2) Method used to upscale data e.g. from hourly to 5-minute resolution. Week Beginning - 0 Between -1 And 7 Start day for mapping file data to weeks (0=automatic, 1-7=weekday, -1=hydro weeks) Data File Input Properties Name Units Multi-band Default Value Validation Rule Key Property Description Base Profile - False 0 False Base profile for use in creating new profiles Energy - False 0 False Energy of the created profile Filename - True 0 False Data file used in the simulation Holiday Yes/No True 0 In (0,-1) False Flag for holiday period that must be preserved Max Value - False 1E+30 False Maximum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Maximum - False 0 False Maximum value of the created profile Min Value - False -1E+30 False Minimum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Minimum - False 0 False Minimum value of the created profile

Name Units Default Value Validation Rule Description Base Year - 0 ≥0 Base year for mapping data from a file with month, day and period but no year Datetime Convention - 0 In (0,1) Convention used when reading DATETIME. Decimal Places - 0 ≥0 Number of decimal places in output written to text files Downscaling Method - -1 In (-1,0,1,2,3,4) Method used to downscale data e.g. from 5-minute to hourly resolution. Enabled Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) If the Data File is enabled for build in the next pass Growth Period - 4 In (1,3,4,7) Cycle over which the growth algorithm matches energy targets (day, month, year, quarter) Historical Period Type - 2 In (2,3) Take samples at each of these period types Historical Sampling Yes/No 0 In (0,-1) Sample data from this file between the Year From and Year To Historical Year Ending - 12 Between 1 And 12 Month that years end in the historical data Historical Year From - 0 ≥0 First year read for historical sampling Historical Year Start - 0 ≥0 Start year for historical sampling within the range Year From and Year To Historical Year To - 0 ≥0 Last year read for historical sampling Locale - 0 ≥0 The numeric index of the locale that should be used to read the file. Method - 1 In (0,1,2,3) Method used to align maximum (and minimum if defined) and energy values Missing Value Method - 0 In (0,1,2) Method used to fill missing values when reading Data Files Periods per Day - 0 Between 0 And 86400 Number of periods per day for Data Files using the Period column Relative Growth at Min % 0 Relative growth at the lowest end of the LDC for Method = Quadratic Shape Distortion - 0 ≥0 Distortion of the original duration curve shape as a function of the difference in maximum and energy growth rates. Time Shift h 0 Number of hours to shift data in time when interpreting dates where a positive value means the data are from a time zone that is behind the 'reference' time zone. Upscaling Method - -1 In (-1,0,1,2) Method used to upscale data e.g. from hourly to 5-minute resolution. Week Beginning - 0 Between -1 And 7 Start day for mapping file data to weeks (0=automatic, 1-7=weekday, -1=hydro weeks) Data File Input Properties Name Units Multi-band Default Value Validation Rule Key Property Description Base Profile - False 0 False Base profile for use in creating new profiles Energy - False 0 False Energy of the created profile Filename - True 0 False Data file used in the simulation Holiday Yes/No True 0 In (0,-1) False Flag for holiday period that must be preserved Max Value - False 1E+30 False Maximum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Maximum - False 0 False Maximum value of the created profile Min Value - False -1E+30 False Minimum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Minimum - False 0 False Minimum value of the created profile

Data File Input Properties Name Units Multi-band Default Value Validation Rule Key Property Description Base Profile - False 0 False Base profile for use in creating new profiles Energy - False 0 False Energy of the created profile Filename - True 0 False Data file used in the simulation Holiday Yes/No True 0 In (0,-1) False Flag for holiday period that must be preserved Max Value - False 1E+30 False Maximum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Maximum - False 0 False Maximum value of the created profile Min Value - False -1E+30 False Minimum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Minimum - False 0 False Minimum value of the created profile

Name Units Multi-band Default Value Validation Rule Key Property Description Base Profile - False 0 False Base profile for use in creating new profiles Energy - False 0 False Energy of the created profile Filename - True 0 False Data file used in the simulation Holiday Yes/No True 0 In (0,-1) False Flag for holiday period that must be preserved Max Value - False 1E+30 False Maximum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Maximum - False 0 False Maximum value of the created profile Min Value - False -1E+30 False Minimum value allowed after application of the growing algorithm. Minimum - False 0 False Minimum value of the created profile
Lists:

