Header: Licensing: About

Table Details:

Paragraphs:
How it works When you start PLEXOS or associated application, a request is made for a license for that product. If a license is available for your machine, you will be granted the license, and you will be able to use the application. If however there are no licenses available, you will be denied access to the application, and the application will not be allowed to continue. For a better understanding of how the licensing model works, please refer to the diagram below. Licensing Request Flow Chart Next Choosing a Licensing Model About the License File Licensing Main Menu

When you start PLEXOS or associated application, a request is made for a license for that product. If a license is available for your machine, you will be granted the license, and you will be able to use the application. If however there are no licenses available, you will be denied access to the application, and the application will not be allowed to continue. For a better understanding of how the licensing model works, please refer to the diagram below. Licensing Request Flow Chart Next Choosing a Licensing Model About the License File Licensing Main Menu

When you start PLEXOS or associated application, a request is made for a license for that product. If a license is available for your machine, you will be granted the license, and you will be able to use the application.

If however there are no licenses available, you will be denied access to the application, and the application will not be allowed to continue.

For a better understanding of how the licensing model works, please refer to the diagram below.

Licensing Request Flow Chart Next Choosing a Licensing Model About the License File Licensing Main Menu

Next Choosing a Licensing Model About the License File Licensing Main Menu

Next Choosing a Licensing Model About the License File Licensing Main Menu

Choosing a Licensing Model About the License File Licensing Main Menu
Lists:
	- Choosing a Licensing Model
	- About the License File
	- Licensing Main Menu


H2s:
How it works
Licensing Request Flow Chart
Next
