Header: LT Plan Chronology

Table Details:
Units:	-
Default Value:	2
Validation Rule:	In (2,3,4)
Description:	Type of chronology used

Paragraphs:
LT Plan Chronology controls the
          level of detail used in representing the Horizon .
          The settings can take these values:

The number of modeled periods in each sample period
              (day/week/month)by default is set by the Horizon Periods per Day . This can
              be reduced (using the same technique as Fitted Chronology above)
              with the parameter Sampled
                Block Count .

NOTE: After sampling a rescaling process is performed, which
              detects wind, solar, load, etc. profiles (i.e.. highly variable
              data) and rescales them such that the total energy equals their
              original input amount. When rescaling the sampled profile, the
              same method is used as the Load
                Forecasting . The base profile (that gets rescaled) is the
              profile that is produced by the sampling process, and the
              sum/max/min targets come from the original input data for the
              sampling interval. By default, the linear growth method is used to
              calculate the scaling factors, and it will automatically switch to
              quadratic method when linear method produces negative values. The
              loads in the formulation are the weighted average of the reduced
              and rescaled samples. To switch off the rescaling process please
              use the undocumented parameter "SuppressRescalingSampledData"
              under "Model" class. Please note that input values for properties with percentage unit (%) will not be rescaled, 
			  such as Rating Factor , Max Capacity Factor and etc. 
			  This is because most percentage properties are meaningful only when the value is entered between 0 to 100, while rescaling could result in out of 
			  range situation. It has also been observed that certain profiles with a value range of [0, 1] may demonstrate volatility to an extent where the 
			  rescaling results by both linear and quadratic methods are not ideal. In this case, user have the option to use the 
			  undocumented parameter "SuppressRescalingSpecificInputs" under "Model" class to switch off the rescaling for this specific input.

Under the "Partial" option (using duration curves) chronology is
          maintained only between duration curves, not within the
          curves i.e. for weekly curves, constraints such as Storage Max Volume are tracked only
          between weeks, and most technical limits such as ramp constraints, and generator start up and shutdown are not tracked.

For both the "Fitted" and "Sampled" options, full chronological
          modelling is done. The key difference is that under the "Fitted"
          option the duration of each time period can vary depending on how the
          underlying intervals are grouped together, whereas under the "Sampled"
          option the simulation periods are all the 'native' duration controlled
          by the Horizon Periods
            per Day setting.

For energy type models, "Fitted" and "Sampled" options query the Region Load or Market Price (for energy markets) along with adjustment factors such as Generator Load Subtracter .

For Universal models you should associate LT Plan with one or more Variable objects using the Variables collection. The Profile property
          of those Variable objects is then
          summed to produce the 'shape' for all chronology types to slice, fit
          and sample.

See also:
Lists:
	- You can reduce the number of blocks used in each curve later in
            the Horizon using the Last
              Block Count setting.
	- Finer control is available over the slicing with the Global Slicing Block property. This
            is particularly useful for a system with a high concentration of
            solar generation because it allows you to force periods of similar
            solar concentration to be kept together in the same LDC block.
	- MT Schedule Chronology
	- LT Plan Sample
              Year Count

