Header: Decision Variable Class

Table Details:

Paragraphs:
See also Decision Variable
            Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this
          class of object.









Decision Variable objects represent generic decision variables that
          are defined in the mathematical programming problem associated with
          the simulation. When you create a Decision Variable object a decision
          variable (matrix column) is allocated to each period of the
          simulation. You can then use these variables in Constraint equations.

Decision Variable objects are useful when you need to define a Constraint on an aspect of the simulation that is not definable with the default Constraint coefficients, or to
          associate a cost with a complex set of conditions. Generic Decision
          Variable objects may also be used to represent commodities that are
          not directly modelled by the default set of objects in the simulator e.g. an industrial by-product that is a function of other variables that
          exist in the simulation.

Other potential uses of Decision Variable are:





The key property for Decision Variable is Objective
            Function Coefficient and its period type variants for hour, day,
          week, month and year types. The period type of this property sets the
          period type of the Decision Variable. One of these properties must be
          defined for the Decision Variable to be included in the Model and hence you can use Scenario on
          this property to switch a Decision Variable in/out as required.

If you define Objective
            Function Coefficient there will be one decision variable in the
          mathematical programming problem for each interval of the horizon. You
          can change the optimization period by instead defining one of:

It is important to note that the period type of a decision variable
          must not be greater than that of the given simulations phase's step
          size.





Decision Variables can be continuous, integer, binary,
          semi-continuous or semi-integer according to the Type attribute. By default the variables are non-negative with no upper
          bound. This can be changed using the Lower
            Bound and Upper
            Bound properties.





Coefficients on a Decision Variable can be included into the 'core'
          formulation via properties on the memberships, for example by defining
          Decision Variable Nodes Net
            Injection Definition Coefficient .





Decision Variable includes the Definition collection which is of Constraint type. The Constraint placed in
          this collection automatically gets a coefficient on the Decision
          Variable equal to the Value
            Coefficient (default of 1).

It is important to set both the definition constraint and the
          corresponding Decision Variable to be of the same period type - see Objective
            Function Coefficient and Constraint
            Period Type .

This definition constraint is not required but is important when you
          need to define a Decision Variable with a Time
            Lag - see that topic for details.





Decision Variable objects formulation can be controlled by simulation
          phase with the attributes: Include
            in LT Plan , Include
            in PASA , Include
            in MT Schedule and Include
            in ST Schedule .

If a Decision Variable is excluded from the current simulation phase,
          any Constraint that involves this
          Decision Variable is also excluded from the simulation phase.





Decision Variable reports the Value at the optimal solution along with the Reduced
            Cost .
Lists:
	- Objective
              Function Coefficient Hour
	- Objective
              Function Coefficient Day
	- Objective
              Function Coefficient Week
	- Objective
              Function Coefficient Month
	- Objective
              Function Coefficient Year

