Header: Flow Node Class

Table Details:
Description:	A node in a flow network
Commodity	Acts as storage for the Commodity.
                Injection to the storage
                acts as a 'sink' and Withdrawal
                acts as a 'source'.
Facility	Acts as either a source or a sink for the Commodity
                flowing on the Flow Network.
                Any Process conducted by the Facility that takes the Commodity as input is a sink;
                and any Process that produces
                the Commodity as an output is
                a source.
Market	Acts as a source or sink for the Commodity
                flowing on the network. If the Market
                defines either Demand or Price with Max
                  Sales it is a sink; and if it defines Supply
                or Price with Max
                  Purchases it is a source.

Paragraphs:
See also Flow Node Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

Related Classes: Commodity , Flow
            Network , Flow Path , Flow
            Storage .

Flow Node works with Flow Path to
          represent a Flow Network .

The key property Units toggle
          on/off the Flow Node in the currently executing Model .
          Additionally the Flow Node must belong to a Flow
            Network via the Flow Network Flow Nodes membership.

The network flows the Commodity set by the Flow Network object.
          You can connect Facility and Market objects that produce, consume
          or trade the same Commodity to a
          Flow Node and the simulator will connect those activities to the
          network at that node e.g. a Facility that produces the Commodity will have its Production injected into the network at that node. Note that the Commodity need
          only be associated with one of the processes the Facility conducts. It
          does not need to be a product or input to the Primary
            Process but can be from any of the Secondary
            Processes .

The following is a basic guide to using Flow Node:

Table 1 outlines the function of class of object that connects to
          Flow Node.



Flow Charge places a per unit
          charge on the Flow through the node.
          The cost incurred is reported in the property Flow
            Cost .

Max Flow and its period variants
          ( Hour , Day , Week , Month ,
          and Year ) defines an upper
          bound on the Flow through the Flow
          Node. Likewise, Min Flow and its
          period variants ( Hour , Day , Week , Month ,
          and Year ) defines a lower
          bound on the Flow through the Flow
          Node.

Output properties for Flow Node report the Flow through the node as well the Consumption and Production of the Commodity by facilities; and the Sales and Purchases to and from markets.
          The locational marginal price of the Commodity is reported in the property Shadow
            Price .

See the example in the Flow Network topic.



You can define custom constraints on Flow Node via the Constraints membership. The Objectives membership allows you to include Flow Node coefficients in your
          multi-objective optimization problems.

Flow Node supports expansion in LT Plan .
          The key input properties are Max
            Units Built and Build Cost and optionally FO&M Charge .
          Expansion costs can be treated as a lump sum or automatically
          annualized by defining WACC and Economic Life . Units can be
          built from Project Start
            Date or immediately if this not defined. Other available
          constraints related to expansion are:

Retirement occurs automatically after the Technical
            Life . Retirements can be optimized if you define Max
            Units Retired and will incur a Retirement
            Cost .
Lists:
	- Project Start Date
	- Min Units Built
	- Max Units Built in
              Year
	- Min Units Built in
              Year

