Header: Abatement Class

Table Details:
Description:	Emission abatement technology

Paragraphs:
See also Abatement Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

Background This class may be used to model pollution abatement technologies such as: FGD (Flue Gas Desulfurization) whereby up to 95% of SO2 is scrubbed from a coal plant's emissions. ESP (Electrostatic Precipitators) and FFP (Fabric Filter Plants) designed to reduce the particulate emissions of coal plant that result from high levels of ash in some coals. PAC (Powered Activated Carbon) injection which is injected into flue gasses and increases the efficiency of other abatement devices or can act alone to 'scrub' harmful emissions such as SO2 and mercury. These technologies all apply post-combustion and work to scrub one or more Emission types from the combustion gases. Features The following are the main features of this class: An Abatement object can be applied to one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. An Abatement object can act to remove one or more Emission objects with varying Efficiency . An Abatement object might 'consume' some product ( e.g. PAC) and the rate of consumption will vary depending on the generation level. An Abatement object incurs both a Running Cost and a cost per unit scrubbed and/or per unit of generation . Where more than one Abatement object is associated with a Generator the simulator will optimize the choice of Abatement technology using integer programming. Thus this class can be used to determine the optimal abatement technology as part of the production simulation. The existence of an Abatement technology is controlled by the Units flag. It's availability can be controlled with the Units Out property. Usage To start using the class: Link the Abatement with one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. Link the Abatement with one or more Emission objects via the Emissions collection. Set the Efficiency of abatement. Optionally define costs such as Abatement Cost , Running Cost and/or VO&M Charge . Costs of consumables such as powdered-activated carbon are modelled using properties of the Consumables collection. Abatement limits can be set via the following constraints: Max Abatement interval property. Max Abatement Hour property. Max Abatement Day property. Max Abatement Week property. Max Abatement Month property. Max Abatement Year property. Solution The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution. The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties. The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.

This class may be used to model pollution abatement technologies such as: FGD (Flue Gas Desulfurization) whereby up to 95% of SO2 is scrubbed from a coal plant's emissions. ESP (Electrostatic Precipitators) and FFP (Fabric Filter Plants) designed to reduce the particulate emissions of coal plant that result from high levels of ash in some coals. PAC (Powered Activated Carbon) injection which is injected into flue gasses and increases the efficiency of other abatement devices or can act alone to 'scrub' harmful emissions such as SO2 and mercury. These technologies all apply post-combustion and work to scrub one or more Emission types from the combustion gases. Features The following are the main features of this class: An Abatement object can be applied to one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. An Abatement object can act to remove one or more Emission objects with varying Efficiency . An Abatement object might 'consume' some product ( e.g. PAC) and the rate of consumption will vary depending on the generation level. An Abatement object incurs both a Running Cost and a cost per unit scrubbed and/or per unit of generation . Where more than one Abatement object is associated with a Generator the simulator will optimize the choice of Abatement technology using integer programming. Thus this class can be used to determine the optimal abatement technology as part of the production simulation. The existence of an Abatement technology is controlled by the Units flag. It's availability can be controlled with the Units Out property. Usage To start using the class: Link the Abatement with one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. Link the Abatement with one or more Emission objects via the Emissions collection. Set the Efficiency of abatement. Optionally define costs such as Abatement Cost , Running Cost and/or VO&M Charge . Costs of consumables such as powdered-activated carbon are modelled using properties of the Consumables collection. Abatement limits can be set via the following constraints: Max Abatement interval property. Max Abatement Hour property. Max Abatement Day property. Max Abatement Week property. Max Abatement Month property. Max Abatement Year property. Solution The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution. The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties. The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.

This class may be used to model pollution abatement technologies such as:

These technologies all apply post-combustion and work to scrub one or more Emission types from the combustion gases.

Features The following are the main features of this class: An Abatement object can be applied to one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. An Abatement object can act to remove one or more Emission objects with varying Efficiency . An Abatement object might 'consume' some product ( e.g. PAC) and the rate of consumption will vary depending on the generation level. An Abatement object incurs both a Running Cost and a cost per unit scrubbed and/or per unit of generation . Where more than one Abatement object is associated with a Generator the simulator will optimize the choice of Abatement technology using integer programming. Thus this class can be used to determine the optimal abatement technology as part of the production simulation. The existence of an Abatement technology is controlled by the Units flag. It's availability can be controlled with the Units Out property. Usage To start using the class: Link the Abatement with one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. Link the Abatement with one or more Emission objects via the Emissions collection. Set the Efficiency of abatement. Optionally define costs such as Abatement Cost , Running Cost and/or VO&M Charge . Costs of consumables such as powdered-activated carbon are modelled using properties of the Consumables collection. Abatement limits can be set via the following constraints: Max Abatement interval property. Max Abatement Hour property. Max Abatement Day property. Max Abatement Week property. Max Abatement Month property. Max Abatement Year property. Solution The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution. The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties. The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.

The following are the main features of this class: An Abatement object can be applied to one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. An Abatement object can act to remove one or more Emission objects with varying Efficiency . An Abatement object might 'consume' some product ( e.g. PAC) and the rate of consumption will vary depending on the generation level. An Abatement object incurs both a Running Cost and a cost per unit scrubbed and/or per unit of generation . Where more than one Abatement object is associated with a Generator the simulator will optimize the choice of Abatement technology using integer programming. Thus this class can be used to determine the optimal abatement technology as part of the production simulation. The existence of an Abatement technology is controlled by the Units flag. It's availability can be controlled with the Units Out property. Usage To start using the class: Link the Abatement with one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. Link the Abatement with one or more Emission objects via the Emissions collection. Set the Efficiency of abatement. Optionally define costs such as Abatement Cost , Running Cost and/or VO&M Charge . Costs of consumables such as powdered-activated carbon are modelled using properties of the Consumables collection. Abatement limits can be set via the following constraints: Max Abatement interval property. Max Abatement Hour property. Max Abatement Day property. Max Abatement Week property. Max Abatement Month property. Max Abatement Year property. Solution The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution. The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties. The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.

The following are the main features of this class:

Where more than one Abatement object is associated with a Generator the simulator will optimize the choice of Abatement technology using integer programming. Thus this class can be used to determine the optimal abatement technology as part of the production simulation.

The existence of an Abatement technology is controlled by the Units flag. It's availability can be controlled with the Units Out property.

Usage To start using the class: Link the Abatement with one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. Link the Abatement with one or more Emission objects via the Emissions collection. Set the Efficiency of abatement. Optionally define costs such as Abatement Cost , Running Cost and/or VO&M Charge . Costs of consumables such as powdered-activated carbon are modelled using properties of the Consumables collection. Abatement limits can be set via the following constraints: Max Abatement interval property. Max Abatement Hour property. Max Abatement Day property. Max Abatement Week property. Max Abatement Month property. Max Abatement Year property. Solution The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution. The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties. The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.

To start using the class: Link the Abatement with one or more Generator objects via the Generators collection. Link the Abatement with one or more Emission objects via the Emissions collection. Set the Efficiency of abatement. Optionally define costs such as Abatement Cost , Running Cost and/or VO&M Charge . Costs of consumables such as powdered-activated carbon are modelled using properties of the Consumables collection. Abatement limits can be set via the following constraints: Max Abatement interval property. Max Abatement Hour property. Max Abatement Day property. Max Abatement Week property. Max Abatement Month property. Max Abatement Year property.

To start using the class:

Optionally define costs such as Abatement Cost , Running Cost and/or VO&M Charge . Costs of consumables such as powdered-activated carbon are modelled using properties of the Consumables collection.

Abatement limits can be set via the following constraints:



Solution The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution. The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties. The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.

The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution. The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties. The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.

The property Operating Hours indicates when an Abatement object is operating at the optimal solution.

The class reports the Gross Emissions , Abatement , Net Emissions and Efficiency .  Costs are reported as the Abatement Cost and Total Cost properties.

The value of emissions abated is also reported in the Abatement Value property.
Lists:
	- FGD (Flue Gas Desulfurization) whereby up to 95% of SO2 is scrubbed from a coal plant's emissions.
	- ESP (Electrostatic Precipitators) and FFP (Fabric Filter Plants) designed to reduce the particulate emissions of coal plant that result from high levels of ash in some coals.
	- PAC (Powered Activated Carbon) injection which is injected into flue gasses and increases the efficiency of other abatement devices or can act alone to 'scrub' harmful emissions such as SO2 and mercury.

