Header: Gas Storage Class

Table Details:
Description:	Storage where gas can be injected and extracted

Paragraphs:
See also Gas Storage Property Reference for
          a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

See the Gas Modelling article
          for details.

A Gas Storage connects to the gas network via the Gas Nodes membership.

Unlike electricity, natural gas benefits from its ability to be stored.

Gas is injected into storage during periods of low demand and withdrawn from it during peak demand. This is important for balancing the flow in pipeline systems, ensuring against unforeseen accidents, meeting regulatory obligations, and for other strategic purposes. The main storage types, each with distinct physical and economic characteristics, are: Depleted gas reservoirs Aquifer reservoirs Salt cavern reservoirs Man made gas storage tanks

Gas storage requires a certain level of saturation before one is able to withdraw natural gas. This level is known as base gas. In PLEXOS this is denoted as Min Volume .

Working gas is the amount of natural gas greater than the base gas. In PLEXOS, working gas is the difference between Max Volume and Min Volume .

Note: Two types of injection/withdrawal ratchets are offered - volume based, or percent volume based.

Gas storage is principally used to meet load variations. Gas is
          injected into storage during periods of low demand and withdrawn from
          storage during periods of peak demand. It is also used for a variety
          of secondary purposes, including:

The Gas Storage object's obligatory membership is with " Gas Node ".

The key property to toggle the "Gas Storage" object on and off of the
          optimization is the " Max Volume " property. It can be set off as zero in case the user wants to
          deactivate the Gas Storage object.

The amount of Max or Min volume of gas allowed in the storage can be
          adjusted by the " Max Volume "
          and " Min Volume " property,
          respectively.

          For gas storage capacity expansion, the Expansion Max Volume can be defined to set a maximum on expansion volume.

Gas Storage " End Effects Method " controls the method used to value or constrain the Final End Volume
          of each simulation step. The setting can take the following options:

The injection-withdrawal level of gas in any interval can be
          constrained by the " Max Injection " and " Max Withdrawal "
          properties while " Target" property sets the end-of-interval target for the End Volume. This
          target will set every interval of the simulation and it can be
          associated with a penalty that makes this constraint soft.

A variety of output properties could be enabled from the reporting
          menu such as " Net withdrawal ", " Working Volume ", and
          " Injection ".
Lists:
	- Depleted gas reservoirs
	- Aquifer reservoirs
	- Salt cavern reservoirs
	- Man made gas storage tanks
	- Balancing the flow in pipeline systems
	- Maintaining contractual balance
	- Leveling production over periods of fluctuating demand
	- Insuring any unforeseen accidents
	- Meeting Regulatory obligations
	- Reducing price volatility
	- Free - End Volume is set freely by the
            optimization. In other words, no additional value or constraint is
            placed on this value.
	- Recycle - The End Volume is constrained equal to
            the Initial Volume of the simulation step. This option adds a
            constraint to the simulation. The penalty for violating this
            constraint is by default -1 (indicating a 'hard' constraint). This
            can be changed with the setting Recycle Penalty.


H2s:
Production
End Effects Method
Constraints
Reporting
