Header: Charging Station Class

Table Details:
Description:	An electric vehicle charging station

Paragraphs:
See also Charging Station
            Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this
          class of object.

Charging Station can represent any type of charging infrastructure
          for electric Vehicles . This could be
          domestic or commercial on-premise charging, or a station in a charging
          network e.g. supercharger. Charging Station objects can
          represent multiple physical stations via the Units property. This allows you to expand the size of the charging
          infrastructure being modeled without having to create additional
          Charging Station objects i.e. it is the 'key' property.

Charging Stations connect to the electric grid with the Charging
            Station Node membership. Vehicles connect to the Charging
          Station with the Vehicle
            Charging Stations membership and the Share property i.e. vehicles move between charging stations
          according to this property and can be partially present at multiple
          charging stations simultaneously - a feature that is designed for
          modeling a large fleet of vehicles and charging stations with a
          probabilistic model for the present location of the fleet.

Properties of Charging Station allow you to select between three
          levels of complexity with respect to charging and discharging of
          electric vehicle batteries:

Charging draws electric power from the grid. Charging Stations have a Max Charge Rates in
          kilowatts. The total available charge rate scales up and down with the
          number of Units . If Vehicles Charge Efficiency is less
          than 100% then some of this energy will be lost and this is reported
          in the Losses output
          property.

V1G is defined with the multi-band properties Deferrable Load and
          Deferment Period. The optimization will choose whether or not to defer
          the charging load according to the limits defined by these properties.
          The amount of load deferred is reported in the Deferred Load property.

V2G is enabled by setting the Max
            Discharge Rate in kilowatts. Discharge from batteries is subject
          to the Vehicles Discharge
            Efficiency and any losses are added into the Losses output property. Discharge appears as additional Generation in the electric grid, and the optimization will arbitrage the electric
          price to find the best times to charge and discharge.

All charging and discharging is subject to a use-of-system
            charge , which might, for example, represent distribution system
          costs.

Charging Station load and generation is reported at the Node , Region and Zone as Charging Station Load , Charging Station
            Deferred Load , and Charging
            Station Generation .

Charging Stations can provide ancillary services via the Charging
            Station Reserves membership. 'Raise' type services can be
          provided when:

'Lower' type services can be provided when:

The co-optimization will trade off charging and discharging with
          electric and ancillary services prices to find the optimal
          combination. Charging Station output properties report the amount of
          each type of reserve provided and the revenue earned from reserve
          provision.

Refer to the Vehicle page for
          details on how to model EVs and charging.

Charging Station supports expansion in LT Plan. The key input
          properties are Max Units
            Built and Build Cost and optionally FO&M
            Charge . Expansion costs can be treated as a lump sum or
          automatically annualized by defining WACC and Economic Life .
          Other available constraints related to expansion are:

Charging Station retirement occurs automatically after the Technical
            Life . Retirements can be optimized if you define Max
            Units Retired and will incur a Retirement
            Cost .
Lists:
	- 'V0G': Charging demand from electric vehicles is 'fixed', based on
            distance travelled and efficiency, and that charging demand must be
            met as soon as the electric vehicles attach to the charging station.
	- 'V1G': Some or all of the charging demand can be deferred in time
            so that charging occurs at a more economic time.
	- 'V2G': The electric vehicle batteries can not only charge from the
            station, but also discharge to the grid.
	- The charging station defers some charging load; or
	- The charging station holds some discharge capacity in reserve.
	- The charging station holds some deferrable charging load in
            reserve; or
	- The charging station is discharging to the grid.
	- Project Start Date
	- Min Units Built
	- Max Units Built
              in Year
	- Min Units
              Built in Year


