Header: Facility Class

Table Details:
Description:	A facility that performs one or more processes
Commodity	Unit	Energy Density (MJ)	Unit Type
Electricity	MW	0	Rate
H2	kg	141.84	Quantity
Electricity.Dump	MW	0	Rate
Process	Primary Input	Primary Output
Blank.Process		
Electricity.Dump	Electricity	Electricity.Dump
Electricity.Generation		Electricity
H2.via.Electrolysis	Electricity	H2
Child Object	Property	Value	Data File	Units
Electricity.Dump	Efficiency	100		%
Electricity.Dump	Processing Charge	1		$
H2.via.Electrolysis	Efficiency	69.366		%
Facility	Primary Process	Capacity Basis
Electricity.Dump	Electricity.Dump	Output
Electrolyser	H2.via.Electrolysis	Input
PV	Electricity.Generation	Output
WF	Electricity.Generation	Output
Facility	Property	Value	Unit	Band	Action	Expression
Electricity.Dump	Units	1	-	1	=	
Electricity.Dump	Max Operating Level	100000	MW	1	=	
Electrolyser	Expansion Optimality	Linear	-	1	=	
Electrolyser	Units	0	-	1	=	
Electrolyser	Max Operating Level	1	MW	1	=	
Electrolyser	Min Operating Factor	0	%	1	=	
Electrolyser	FO&M Charge	50000	$	1	=	
Electrolyser	Build Cost	2000000	$	1	=	
Electrolyser	WACC	8	%	1	=	
Electrolyser	Economic Life	25	yr	1	=	
Electrolyser	Max Units Built	2700	-	1	=	
Electrolyser	Min Units Built	0	-	1	=	
Electrolyser	Build Non-anticipativity	-1	$	1	=	
PV	Expansion Optimality	Linear	-	1	=	
PV	Units	0	-	1	=	
PV	Max Operating Level	1	MW	1	=	
PV	Fixed Production	1	-	1	×	PV
PV	FO&M Charge	30000	$	1	=	
PV	Build Cost	2000000	$	1	=	
PV	WACC	8	%	1	=	
PV	Economic Life	25	yr	1	=	
PV	Max Units Built	35000	-	1	=	
PV	Min Units Built	0	-	1	=	
PV	Build Non-anticipativity	-1	$	1	=	
WF	Expansion Optimality	Linear	-	1	=	
WF	Units	0	-	1	=	
WF	Max Operating Level	1	MW	1	=	
WF	Fixed Production	1	-	1	×	WF
WF	FO&M Charge	50000	$	1	=	
WF	Build Cost	2000000	$	1	=	
WF	WACC	8		1	=	
WF	Economic Life	25	yr	1	=	
WF	Max Units Built	35000	-	1	=	
WF	Min Units Built	0	-	1	=	
WF	Build Non-anticipativity	-1	$	1	=	

Paragraphs:
See also Facility Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

Related Classes: Commodity , Process , Market , Entity , Flow Network , Flow
            Node .

Facility represents physical infrastructure hosting one or more
          processes ( Process objects which in
          turn produce and/or consume various Commodity objects). Examples include power stations, processing plants,
          factories, etc .  Facilities add detail to Process objects relevant to actual physical infrastructure such as: on/off
          decisions, capacity expansion optimization, maintenance and aspects of
          process efficiency and technical constraints unique to the facility
          such as ramping limits, minimum production levels and efficiency as a
          function of output.

You can toggle a Facility in/out of the simulation using the Units property.

A Facility can connect to one or more Flow
            Network via memberships to Flow
            Node objects.



Figure 1: Example Facility

The following guide will help you get started using the Facility
          class:

Facility supports multiple Units ,
          and implements a fully-featured unit commitment and economic dispatch
          (UC/ED) optimization based on mixed integer programming (MIP).
          Technical constraints related to the UC/ED optimization are:

Initial conditions can be specified - see Initial
            Production for details.

Production (dispatch) and Units Operating (unit
          commitment) can be 'fixed' or preset in some or all periods with the Fixed Production and Commit constraints respectively.

The efficiency of the Primary Process by default is set on the
          Process Efficiency property, but can be overridden by the Facility
          with a multi-point efficiency function defined using the properties Efficiency Point and Efficiency
            Incr .

A Facility conducts a Primary
            Process and optionally Secondary
            Processes and those run whenever Units
            Operating is non-zero. However, Facility supports the ability to
          run a Warm Up Process during a 'warm up' period set by the Warm
            Up Time property. The warm up period is triggered when there are
          any number of Units Started after a period where Units
            Operating is zero. During the warm-up period, only the Warm
            Up Process runs i.e. Production is zero.

Facility supports modeling of both Forced and Maintenance outages with
          various options for the repair
            time distributions. Planned outages are input with the Units
            Out property.

Facility supports two-stage and multi-stage stochastic optimization
          of unit commitment and production - see Production
            Non-anticipativity for details.

A Facility object can Formulate
            Risk in a risk-constrained simulation to bounds its Net
            Profit within an Acceptable
            Risk . Alternatively, the Facility can participate in an Entity which can Formulate Risk .

The following example relates to the production of hydrogen (H 2 ) from
          renewable electricity. It defines these Commodity and Process objects:







Note the definition of an "Electricity.Dump" Commodity and related
          Process which will absorb excess renewable energy production at a
          nominal cost of $1/MWh. This is necessary in the absence of other
          consumers of the energy or a Market in
          which to sell the excess energy.

The Facility objects are as follows:



The objects have a Primary
            Process membership to the Process they implement. Multiple Facility objects can implement any one Process .
          The Process objects define the Efficiency of production as they convert their Primary
            Input to Primary Output .

The Capacity Basis attribute for a Facility determines the Unit that will be used to define the Max
            Operating Level of the Facility. For example the "PV" Facility
          implements the "Electricity.Generation" Process which has a Primary Output Commodity "Electricity" which has Unit MW. Capacity Basis is set
          to "Output" and therefore the Max
            Operating Level of the "PV" Facility is expressed in MW. 
          By contrast the "Electrolyzer" Facility implements the
          "H2.via.Electrolysis" Process with Primary Input "Electricity" and Primary Output "H2". We want
          the Max Operating Level of this Facility to be in MW therefore Capacity
            Basis is set to "Input".

Note that the GUI will display the correct Unit according to the Capacity Basis as shown in Table 5



The Fixed Production property for "PV" and "WF" objects point to Variable objects that
          generate the appropriate production profiles for these facilities.

The "H2" Commodity produced in this example can now be sold directly
          to a Market (by associating the Market
          object with the Commodity) or connected to a Flow
            Network , which in turn can have a Market attached to a Flow
            Node .

The Facility class includes a number of shortcut properties: Max
            Capacity Factor , Max
            Production , Max Starts , Min Capacity Factor , Min Production , and their
          period variants. You can define custom constraints on Facility via the Constraints membership. The Objectives membership allows you
          to include Facility coefficients in your multi-objective optimization
          problems.

Facility supports expansion in LT Plan. The key input properties are Max Units Built and Build
            Cost and optionally FO&M
            Charge . Expansion costs can be treated as a lump sum or
          automatically annualized by defining WACC and Economic Life . Units can
          be built from Project Start
            Date or immediately if this not defined. Other available
          constraints related to expansion are:

Retirement occurs automatically after the Technical
            Life . Retirements can be optimized if you define Max
            Units Retired and will incur a Retirement
            Cost .

Two-stage stochastic optimization of expansion is supported - see Build Non-anticipativity for details.
Lists:
	- Create one or more Process objects
            that the Facility will host.
	- Link the Primary Process and optionally any Secondary
              Processes to the Facility.
	- Define the Max
              Operating Level of the Facility for the Primary
              Process .
	- Optionally define any technical constraints such as: Min
              Operating Factor , Min Up
              Time , Min Down Time , Must-run Units , Max
              Ramp Up , Max Ramp Down etc .
	- Min Operating Factor :
            specifies the minimum production level when a unit is operating
	- Start Cost and Shutdown
              Cost : place costs on starting up or shutting down a unit
	- Max Ramp Down / Up :
            place limits on how rapidly the production of a unit can change from
            one interval to the next
	- Min Down / Up
              Time and Max Down / Up Time : place limits on how
            long a unit must stay on or off once started or shut down
	- Project Start Date
	- Min Units Built
	- Max Units Built in
              Year
	- Min Units Built in
              Year

