Header: MT Schedule Class

Table Details:
Description:	MT Schedule simulation phase
Model random forced outage events		and / or ST	and / or MT
Model distributed maintenance events	required	and / or ST	and / or MT
Model constraints over more than a one week
                period e.g. emission, fuel, generation constraints		required	optional
Model medium-term equilibrium e.g.
                Nash-Cournot or LRMC recovery		required	optional
Optimize storage trajectories over medium term		required	optional
Model a full chronology (every dispatch period)		recommended	required
NEW CCGT	Units	0	-	1
NEW CCGT	Max Capacity	250	MW	1
NEW CCGT	Min Stable Level	100	MW	1
NEW CCGT	Heat Rate	7.7	GJ/MWh	1
NEW CCGT	Start Cost	1500	$	1
NEW CCGT	FO&M Charge	9	$/kW/year	1
NEW CCGT	Equity Charge	27.75	$/kW/year	1
NEW CCGT	Debt Charge	45.33	$/kW/year	1
NEW CCGT	Maintenance Rate	10	%	1
NEW CCGT	Forced Outage Rate	10	%	2
NEW CCGT	Mean Time to Repair	36	hrs	1
NEW CCGT	Mean Time to Repair	6	hrs	2
NEW CCGT	Max Units Built	2	-	1
NEW GT	Units	0	-	1
NEW GT	Max Capacity	100	MW	1
NEW GT	Min Stable Level	20	MW	1
NEW GT	Heat Rate	12	GJ/MWh	1
NEW GT	Start Cost	500	$	1
NEW GT	FO&M Charge	10	$/kW/year	1
NEW GT	Equity Charge	13.5	$/kW/year	1
NEW GT	Debt Charge	22	$/kW/year	1
NEW GT	Maintenance Rate	10	%	1
NEW GT	Forced Outage Rate	10	%	2
NEW GT	Mean Time to Repair	36	hrs	1
NEW GT	Mean Time to Repair	6	hrs	2
NEW GT	Max Units Built	6	-	1
NEW WIND	Units	0	-	1				
NEW WIND	Max Capacity	10	MW	1				
NEW WIND	Rating Factor	0	%	1				CSV Files\NEW WIND.csv
NEW WIND	FO&M Charge	4	$/kW/year	1				
NEW WIND	Equity Charge	135	$/kW/year	1				
NEW WIND	Debt Charge	220	$/kW/year	1				
NEW WIND	Firm Capacity	0.8	MW	1				
NEW WIND	Max Units Built	50	-	1				

Paragraphs:
See also MT Schedule Property
            Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of
          object.











MT Schedule addresses a key challenge in power system modelling, and
          that is to optimize medium to long term decisions in a computationally
          efficient manner. Primarily this means managing hydro storages, fuel
          supply and emission constraints, but there are many other constraints
          and commercial considerations that need to be addressed over
          timescales longer than a day or week.

The reason that these medium-term constraints create such a challenge
          is because they imply that the simulator must optimize decisions
          spanning weeks, months and years and simultaneously optimize decisions
          in the short-term (hour or lower) level. To explain, let's assume we
          have a system with no hydro or other intertemporal elements i.e. generators can start/stop instantly and cannot 'bank' energy. In this
          case we can calculate the optimal dispatch of the system by
          formulating a series of mathematical programming problems each
          representing a single interval of time. We then optimize the problem
          and repeat for all intervals of the horizon. The decisions in one
          interval do not affect those in the next or previous interval so this
          approach yields an overall optimal outcome.

However, in reality we must make some decisions with respect to
          intertemporal constraints such as hydro energy balance, fuel
          constraints, emission limits, or generator technical limits. For
          example, hydro systems often have storage capability of many weeks,
          months or even years. Considering the simulation of a single year, one
          might think that we 'simply' make a mathematical program that includes
          all 8760 (or 8784) hours of the year and solve it in one giant step,
          but unfortunately this is usually computationally impossible. For
          example, the single interval problem might be a linear or mixed
          integer program with perhaps 100,000 non-zero coefficients, thus the
          annual problem would have at least 876 million coefficients. This is
          many times more than computer memory can hold or any current-day
          algorithm can solve on a personal computer.

Thus we need a way of optimizing medium and long-term constraints and
          commercial decisions while still simulating in relatively small time
          steps. MT Schedule solves this problem by:

Further reduction in complexity and hence problem size is achieved
          by:

The above simplifications are controlled through the Transmission
            Detail , and Heat Rate
            Detail settings.

Through this approach MT Schedule provides the following capabilities
          in the simulation process:

MT Schedule is run after system initialization and the LT
            Plan , PASA but before ST
            Schedule .

MT Schedule run without ST Schedule provides a method by which the analyst can perform lower-detail
          simulations in minimum time over study horizons of multiple years.

It is because of MT Schedule, and its tight integration with ST
            Schedule , that the simulator is able to handle aspects such as
          gamed equilibrium, energy constraints, fuel contracts, and emissions
          limitations and taxes without resorting to heuristics. For example,
          the simulator allows the direct specification of Max
            Energy constraints, and MT Schedule formulates these constraints
          dynamically, adding them directly into the linear programming (LP)
          problem. Thus, the limited energy is utilized optimally, and the
          energy constraint is always obeyed. Because MT Schedule uses a reduced
          chronology it is able to handle constraints with periods as long a
          whole year or even multi-year.

As alluded to above, it is not uncommon for analysts to use MT
          Schedule alone to produce their final simulation results. This is
          because MT Schedule models the system (nearly) identically to ST
            Schedule - the only approximation being in the way the
          chronology is represented. The distinct advantage of MT Schedule is
          execution speed. It is possible to produce results across a long
          timeframe on a large model in a matter of minutes, whereas the full
          chronological ST Schedule model
          might take several hours to run over the same timeframe.

However, the real power of MT Schedule is realized when it is run in
          combination with ST Schedule as
          described below.





The following table provides a guide to when to use the PASA ,
          MT Schedule and ST Schedule algorithms. In the first column is a list of possible requirements of
          the simulation exercise. The corresponding columns for the three
          algorithms indicate which algorithm meets that requirement. By
          reviewing a list of requirements it is possible to determine which set
          of algorithms should be enabled.

When run with ST Schedule , the MT
          Schedule decomposition information is automatically passed to the ST Schedule so that the dispatch and
          pricing impact of constraints such as energy limits and storage
          targets, and financial impact of medium-term trading strategy is
          correctly accounted for in the short-term schedule.

Note that the simulator will automatically warn you if MT Schedule is
          required with ST Schedule .





There are three methods available for modelling the Horizon in MT Schedule (and these are also available in LT
            Plan ). This is controlled by the Chronology setting which can take these values:





MT Schedule divides the horizon by either day, week, month or year,
          according to the LDC Type setting. A load (or price) duration curve (LDC/PDC) is created for
          each of these periods by ordering the original dispatch intervals by
          the total of all Region Load (or Price ) from highest to lowest.
          The intervals in each duration curve are then grouped into a number of
          blocks which are created by slicing the duration curve according to
          the LDC Slicing Method setting.

The number of periods simulated is thus reduced to:

Note that you may vary the number of blocks used across the horizon
          so that for example less blocks are used later in the horizon. This is
          done with the Last Block
            Count setting. This can be used to further reduce the number of
          periods simulated and concentrate simulation detail on the near-term.

Each year is first cut by weeks (if LDC
            Type = "week") then each week is fitted with a load duration
          curve with the required number of Block
            Count . The method used to slice the load duration curves into
          blocks is controlled by the LDC
            Slicing Method . The slicing methods can fit the step function
          using least-squares and/or bias the slicing of the LDC towards the
          peak and off-peak periods.

Finer control is available over the slicing with the Global Slicing Block property. This is
          particularly useful for a system with a high concentration of solar
          generation because it allows you to force periods of similar solar
          concentration to be kept together in the same LDC block.

In partial chronology all system constraints are applied, except
          those that deal with unit commitment and other intertemporal
          constraints that imply a chronological relationship between individual
          intervals: although all broader intertemporal constraints down to
          daily limits are modelled. Storage is
          balanced between duration curves, but not within the curves e.g. for weekly duration curves the storage bounds are enforced at the
          boundary between weeks.

Note that for systems with a large amount of renewable generation,
          the accuracy of the load duration curve slicing can be improved by
          implementing the Generator Load
            Subtracter property to produce a net system load curve.





MT Schedule preserves the original ordering of intervals, but instead
          of simulating every interval it combines intervals together so that
          only the designated number of Block
            Count is modelled in each days/weeks/months/year e.g. you might represent each week with 50 fitted periods.
          The fitting is done using the weighted least-squares technique.

The number of periods simulated is thus reduced to:

For the fitted chronology simulation, all system constraints are
          applied including generator unit commitment and storage is balanced
          every simulation period. The compromise here is that the duration of
          each simulation period can vary according to the result of the fitting
          and thus some accuracy is lost in modelling ramp and unit start up and shutdown.





In "Sampled" chronology the Sample
            Type periods ( e.g. weeks) are preserved verbatim but
          only the specified number of those periods is selected for modelling.
          The remaining (unsampled) periods are 'mapped' to the samples so that
          a full set of results is obtained and elements such as Storage and inter-temporal Constraint objects evaluate correctly.

The sampling is done using statistical sample reduction similar to
          the method used for Variable sample
          reduction.

The number of periods simulated is reduced to:



This is a special version of "Sampled" chronology focused on
          providing a very fast way to perform 100s or 1000s of Monte Carlo
          simulations in order to estimate reliability statistics such as Region Unserved Energy . The
          simulation time is greatly reduced by targeting only periods of time
          that are likely to have unserved energy  while a reasonable level
          of accuracy is obtained - sampled chronology being fully featured in
          terms of chronological detail.

There are two methods available for selecting the sample periods in
          the horizon:

If you define the Global Sampled
            Period input then automatic selection is disabled. This allows
          you to run PASA with MT Schedule in
          reliability mode without PASA reevaluating the sampled periods. Furthermore, you can run PASA without MT Schedule and write the selected reliability periods to a
          text file with the option PASA Write
            Reliability Text Files . The file produced can then be read back
          as Global Sampled
            Period in a subsequent simulation where MT Schedule Chronology =
          "Reliability".

Once the target intervals are selected they are optionally
          supplemented so that no block of time is less than Reliability
            Min Contiguous Block in hours. This ensures that short term
          storage such as Battery storage
          accounts for the duration and magnitude of the peak period load rather
          than just the magnitude.

The simulation proceeds in a similar manner to Sampled Chronology
          except that there is no attempt to map the modeled periods to the full
          horizon when the solution is reported. Steps of the simulation are
          positioned at each contiguous block of sampled intervals and those
          blocks are essentially run independently for the purposes of storage
          modeling and other constraints i.e. storage restart from
          their initial position each block.

A typical Model set up for a reliability study with automatic
          selection of sample periods would include:

Example:

In the following example:

When MT Schedule runs, it expands the 250 h to a total of 477 by
          ensuring that each contiguous block of periods is no less than 4 h
          long. In this case there are 53 contiguous blocks of periods so MT
          Schedule runs in 53 'steps'.



The following log file extracts and charts shows typical reporting
          and load profiles of the various Chronology settings:

'Partial Chronology

Fitted Chronology

For the "Fitted" case the weighted least-squares approach is used. It
          ensures that the fitting of the step load function is done optimally
          with respect to minimizing the sum of squared errors.

In Figure 1 the duration curves are created with Block
            Count = 12, but the "Fitted" method is done with Block
            Count = 41. It is a general rule that the "Fitted" method
          requires a much larger number of blocks than does the "Partial"
          method. The number of 41 was chosen here to match approximately the
          number of simulation periods of the "Sampled" case below.

In the "Partial" and "Sampled" cases, the peak load value in the
          month is preserved. The 'pinning' of the peak and off-peak values is
          controlled by the LDC Pin Top and LDC Pin Bottom settings. By default, once the number of blocks equals or exceeds
          seven, the peak will be 'pinned' automatically.

The additional parameters LDC
            Weight a , LDC Weight b , LDC Weight c , and LDC
            Weight d can be used to define a weighting function in the
          calculation of the least squares fit. The parameters define a
          third-order polynomial function that is used to transform the load
          values:

For example, from historical information you know both Load and Price . You might want to bias the
          slicing algorithm into putting more detail into periods of high Cost
            to Load . The polynomial then would represent the regression of Cost to Load to Load .

Sampled Chronology

Typical log output for the "Sampled" case is:





The simulator performs the decomposition in a phase called the "MT
          -> ST Schedule Bridge" directly after MT Schedule.

Example

The following is typical screen output of the MT -> ST Schedule
          Bridge:

There are two types of decomposition listed here. Firstly a section
          dealing with Constraint objects
          including automatically-generated constraints resulting from the
          definition of properties like Generator Max Capacity Factor
            Month , as in the above example on the "Carson Peaker" generator.
          Secondly there is the Storage section
          which provides details on what, if any, information is being passed
          from MT Schedule to help co-ordinate the storage management in ST
            Schedule .





MT Schedule automatically decides which Constraint objects and implied constraints such as Generator Max Energy Year need
          decomposition. If the constraint period is longer than the step length
          of ST Schedule then the constraint
          gets decomposed. The decomposition method can be switched between
          "Quantity" and "Price" modes with the setting Decomposition
            Method . The default is to decompose as quantities. For example a
          maximum energy constraint will be decomposed into an energy allocation
          for each day/week of ST Schedule .
          The allocation can be reported through the Constraint
            Decomposition diagnostic. A particular challenge is the handling
          of constraints that are slack or violated in MT Schedule. Refer to the Constraint topic for more
          information on the decomposition algorithm.

Should ST Schedule under or
          over-use the allocated quantities in any step, then 'roll over' logic
          keeps track of this to ensure that the original constraint is
          satisfied. The rollover procedure can be inspected with the Constraint
            Rollover diagnostic.

Note that the LDC method does not model generator start
            up , but start modelling is required to correctly account for Fuel usage and Emission or Max Starts constraints
          spanning over the medium term. Thus the LDC method might not be
          appropriate for modelling these constraints when starts and/or start
          fuel use is a significant factor. The Chronological method should be
          used in this case.





The bridge algorithm reports the decision taken for each Storage object out of the following options:

The Storage End
            Volume from MT Schedule is to used to create a set of targets
          for the End Volume of each ST
            Schedule day or week. The target constraints are 'soft' with a
          penalty function described in the Storage Decomposition Method topic.

This means that MT Schedule decided not to decompose the storage. It
          might be a pumped storage that has a very small head storage for
          example. The storage will be freely reoptimized by ST
            Schedule .

Water left in storage at the end of each ST
            Schedule step is priced at the Shadow
            Price computed by MT Schedule.

The default choice for decomposition method can generally be
          over-ridden by changing the Storage Decomposition Method setting.

The results of the decomposition can be written to text files for
          later use in other simulations with the option Write
            Bridge Text Files .





MT Schedule supports multi-sample simulation, where the samples vary
          in the pattern of Generator and Line maintenance and/or forced outages
          and/or in the sample values of the stochastic Variables .
          By default only a single 'Expected Value' sample is run, but this can
          be changed with the Stochastic
            Method setting.

Note that the sample size for outages and stochastic sampling is set
          by the Stochastic object settings
          associated with the executing Model .





When MT Schedule is running in multi-sample mode Stochastic Method is
          set to "Independent Samples" or "Scenario-wise Decomposition", Constraint decomposition is performed for each sample. You should set the ST
            Schedule Stochastic
            Method setting appropriately e.g. if MT Schedule is
          running multi-sample then it is natural that ST
            Schedule should also run multi-sample.

When running in "Scenario-wise Decomposition" mode MT Schedule can
          perform a two-stage stochastic decomposition of Storage .
          See the topic Storage Trajectory
            Non-anticipativity for details.





Similarly to LT Plan MT Schedule
          offers two approaches to modelling of random (forced) outages:







The New Entry Driver setting toggles on/off the algorithm. Only expansion of the generation
          side is supported, not retirements or expansion of the transmission
          system. These capabilities are instead available with LT
            Plan .

The new entry algorithm works by evaluating, at each simulation step
          of MT Schedule i.e. each year, whether or not one or more of
          the nominated potential new generation projects are economic given the
          simulated energy Price in the year,
          or if the Capacity Reserves have fallen below the required minimum such and capacity must be added
          for reliability purposes. The New
            Entry Driver setting controls whether or not reliability and/or
          entrepreneurial entry is considered.





The candidate projects are identified by defining Generator Max Units Built . You should
          also define Generator FO&M
            Charge and annuities via the Equity
            Charge and Debt Charge (refer to LT Plan for a discussion of
          annuity calculations).

Example

The following tables provide examples of definitions for generic
          "CCGT", "GT" and "Wind" new entry candidates. Note that it is assumed
          the thermal generators are associated with one or more Fuels not shown here.





For entrepreneurial entry, the simulator calculates the premium (over
          variable costs) that each of the candidate generators would receive
          given the MT Schedule price duration curve for the year ahead. For
          reliability entry, the candidate with the highest premium (even if a
          loss is implied) will be entered. If entrepreneurial entry is
          considered, the same premia are used to select potentially profitable
          new entrants. Units are entered one-by-one, and the price duration
          curve is adjusted appropriately each time, so the premium for each
          candidate reduces as new units are added until eventually no more
          plant can be profitably entered.

This approach is very similar to that which would be used by an
          entrepreneur calculating the profitability of potential projects
          except that MT Schedule only looks one year ahead , and
          assumes that all future years will be the same. Thus this method only
          approximates optimal entrepreneurial entry.

Capacity entered to meet reliability criteria is always entered at
          the beginning of the MT Schedule step in which it is required e.g. if a capacity shortfall were forecast to occur in February, and the
          horizon steps through calendar years, then the new generator will
          begin operation on January 1 of the year it. By default new
          entrepreneurial generators will begin operation in the year
          immediately following their selection. This behaviour can be
          controlled with the New
            Entry Time Lag setting.

Example

With New Entry Driver set to "Entrepreneurial Only" the following report appears in the log
          during execution. It details firstly the peak load period and how much Generation Capacity is
          available at that time. Net
            Capacity Interchange is reported and the resulting Capacity
            Reserves . The next section listed the new entry candidates and
          their:



The Available Premium must be large enough to cover
          the Required Premium for the given new entrant to be
          selected. If it is selected a message like the following is printed to
          the log and the entry is labelled with Status of
          "Entrepreneurial":

Generators added to maintain the required Min
            Capacity Reserves be are listed in the log file as in the
          following example with Status of "Reliability". The
          candidate with the highest premium is selected.

Addition of capacity continues each year to meet the required
          reserves and/or when profitable as set the New
            Entry Driver .

Figures 4-7 show example results from simulations with New
            Entry Driver = "Entrepreneurial Only". Figures 8-11 repeat those
          for New Entry Driver =
          "Reliability and/or Entrepreneurial".














Lists:
	- reducing the number of simulated periods by combining together
            dispatch intervals in the horizon into 'blocks' using one of two
            rules described below; and
	- optimizing decisions over this reduced chronology; then
	- decomposing medium-term constraints and objectives into a
            set of equivalent short-term constraints and objectives. We can then
            apply the ST Schedule
	- Modelling the transmission network only to the Region or Zone level
	- Replacing the Optimal Power Flow with a transportation model
	- Simplifying the detail used to model Generator efficiency
	- Partial
	- Fitted
	- Sampled
	- The PASA phase with PASA Step Type = "interval" (to capture
            the Reliability
              Criterion in high detail).
	- The MT Schedule phase with Chronology = "Reliability" and Stochastic
              Method = "Sequential Monte Carlo" or "Parallel Monte Carlo"
            (faster).
	- Stochastic settings with Outage Pattern Count and Risk
              Sample Count with the desired Monte Carlo configuration e.g. 1000 outage patterns.
	- The Report set to Output
              Results by Sample with limited output data selected.
	- Optionally limiting the Region , Zone or Node objects involved in selecting the Reliability
              Criterion (by adding a filter to the Lists collection of the Report object).
	- Optionally writing the sampled periods to a text file for later
            use.
	- PASA Reliability
              Criterion is set to "LOLP"
	- PASA Reliability
              LOLP Tolerance is set to 0.01
	- PASA Reliability
              Max Samples is set to 250 h.
	- MT Schedule Reliability
              Min Contiguous Block is set to 4 h.


	- Monte Carlo Simulation : Each independent sample
            models a unique pattern of random outages. In order to gain
            convergence of estimates with a high degree of confidence it is
            necessary to run a large number of samples. This is especially true
            of simulation outcomes that are sensitive to random outages such as
            estimates of Unserved Energy or the Price Received by
            peaking plant.
	- Effective Load Approach : In this method the Generator Forced Outage Rate is
            convolved into the Region Load to produce an "Effective Load". For a description of convolution
            read the LOLP topic and for more
            details of the Effective Load Approach refer to the LT
              Plan documentation.


H2s:
3.1. Partial
          Chronology
3.2. Fitted
          Chronology
3.3. Sampled
          Chronology
3.4.
          Reliability
3.5.
          Chronology Examples
4.1.
          Constraints
4.2. Hydro
          Storage
5.1.
          Stochastic Method
5.2. Forced
          Outages
6.1. New
          Entry Candidates
6.2. New
          Entry Algorithm
