Header: Constraint Class

Table Details:
Description:	Generic constraint
Reserve.Constraints	Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient]
Fuel.Constraints	Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient]
Emission.Constraints	Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient]
Company.Constraints	Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient]
ARDNA	RHS Day	0	-	1	DAILY.csv	Hydro Daily
ARDNA	RHS Month	0	-	1	MONTHLY.csv	Hydro Monthly
ERNE	RHS Day	0	-	1	DAILY.csv	Hydro Daily
ERNE	RHS Month	0	-	1	MONTHLY.csv	Hydro Monthly
LEE	RHS Day	0	-	1	DAILY.csv	Hydro Daily
LEE	RHS Month	0	-	1	MONTHLY.csv	Hydro Monthly
LIFFEY	RHS Day	0	-	1	DAILY.csv	Hydro Daily
LIFFEY	RHS Month	0	-	1	MONTHLY.csv	Hydro Monthly
Sense	≤	-	
RHS	9999	-	
RHS	500	-	1/01/2004
Sense	≤	-	
RHS	500	-	
Penalty Price	0	-	
Penalty Price	5000	-	1/01/2004
Sense	≤	-	
RHS	500	-	
Penalty Price	0	-	
Penalty Price	-1	-	1/01/2004
V-SA MAX	Sense	≤	-
V-SA MAX	RHS	400	-
V-SA MAX	V-SA	Flow Coefficient	1	MW
V-SA MAX	TORRB > 2 UNIT	RHS Coefficient	100	-
V-SA MAX	RHS	550	-	1				Load < 2500
V-SA MAX	RHS	480	-	1				Load < 3000, Load >= 2500
V-SA MAX	RHS	400	-	1				-
Sense	≤	-	
RHS	2000	-	TJ
Penalty Price	5000	-	$/TJ
Sense	≤	-	-	-
RHS	2000	-	1	TJ
Penalty Quantity	500	-	1	TJ
Penalty Quantity	1000	-	2	TJ
Penalty Price	5000	-	1	$/TJ
Penalty Price	15000	-	2	$/TJ
Activity	-	Constraint activity at optimal solution
Slack	-	Constraint slack at optimal solution
Violation	-	Constraint violation at optimal solution
Hours Binding	hrs	Number of hours the constraint is binding
RHS	-	Constraint RHS constant
Price	$	Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution
Hours Active	hrs	Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions)
Penalty Cost	$ ($000)	Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function
Rental	$ ($000)	Contribution of activity to the dual objective function
Annual CO2	Sense	≤	-
Annual CO2	RHS Year	200000000	-
Annual CO2	CO2	Production Coefficient	1	-
Annual CO2	Activity	30-JUN-05	171169113.04	-
Annual CO2	Slack	30-JUN-05	28830886.96	-
Annual CO2	Violation	30-JUN-05	-	-
Annual CO2	Price	30-JUN-05	-	-
Annual CO2	Hours Binding	30-JUN-05	-	-
Annual CO2	Hours Active	30-JUN-05	-	-
TotalGen	Sense	≤	-
TotalGen	RHS	400	MW
TotalGen	Gen1	Generation Coefficient	1	-
TotalGen	Gen2	Generation Coefficient	1	-
TotalGen	Gen3	Generation Coefficient	1	-
TotalGen	Sense	≤	-
TotalGen	RHS Day	900	GW
TotalGen	Gen1	Generation Coefficient	1	-
TotalGen	Gen2	Generation Coefficient	1	-
TotalGen	Gen3	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxSumGen	Sense	≤	-
MaxSumGen	RHS	800	MW
MaxSumGen	Gen1	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxSumGen	Gen2	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxSumGen	Gen3	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxSumGen	Sense	≤	-
MaxSumGen	RHS Day	800	MW
MaxSumGen	Gen1	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxSumGen	Gen2	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxSumGen	Gen3	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxGen	Sense	≤	-
MaxGen	RHS	300	MW
MaxGen	Gen1	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxGen	Gen2	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxGen	Gen3	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxGen	Sense	≤	-
MaxGen	RHS Day	300	MW
MaxGen	Gen1	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxGen	Gen2	Generation Coefficient	1	-
MaxGen	Gen3	Generation Coefficient	1	-
Constraint Generators	Generation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal
Constraint Generators	Generation Squared Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal
Constraint Generators	Generation SUM Squared Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal
Constraint Generators	Generation Sent Out Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate
Constraint Generators	Capacity Factor Coefficient	-	Coefficient of capacity factor.
Constraint Generators	Operating Hours Coefficient	hrs	Coefficient of number of hours of operation.
Constraint Generators	Units Generating Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of units generating
Constraint Generators	Units Started Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of units started
Constraint Generators	Units Shutdown Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of units shutdown
Constraint Generators	Hours Down Coefficient	hrs	Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off
Constraint Generators	Available Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of available capacity
Constraint Generators	Commited Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of committed capacity
Constraint Generators	Fuel Offtake Coefficient	GJ	Coefficient of fuel offtake
Constraint Generators	Emission Coefficient	kg	Coefficient of emission production
Constraint Generators	Heat Production Coefficient	GJ	Coefficient of heat production
Constraint Generators	Pump Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of pump load
Constraint Generators	Units Pumping Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of units pumping
Constraint Generators	Pump Units Started Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of pump units started
Constraint Generators	Ramp Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of ramp
Constraint Generators	Ramp Up Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of ramp up
Constraint Generators	Ramp Down Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of ramp down
Constraint Generators	Ramp Up Violation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of max ramp up violation
Constraint Generators	Ramp Down Violation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of max ramp down violation
Constraint Generators	Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types)
Constraint Generators	Spinning Reserve Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity
Constraint Generators	Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision
Constraint Generators	Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve
Constraint Generators	Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of raise reserve provision
Constraint Generators	Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of lower reserve provision
Constraint Generators	Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision
Constraint Generators	Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision
Constraint Generators	Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of replacement reserve provision
Constraint Generators	Flexibility Up Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of flexibility up
Constraint Generators	Flexibility Down Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of flexibility down
Constraint Generators	Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of ramp flexibility up
Constraint Generators	Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of ramp flexibility down
Constraint Generators	Installed Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of installed capacity
Constraint Generators	Rated Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating
Constraint Generators	Units Out Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of units out of service
Constraint Fuels	Offtake Coefficient	GJ	Coefficient of fuel offtake
Constraint Fuels	Emission Coefficient	kg	Coefficient of fuel emission
Constraint Fuel Contracts	Offtake Coefficient	GJ	Coefficient of fuel contract offtake
Constraint Emissions	Production Coefficient	kg	Coefficient of emissions produced
Constraint Emissions	Abatement Coefficient	kg	Coefficient of emissions abated
Constraint Abatements	Abatement Coefficient	kg	Coefficient of emissions abated
Constraint Abatements	Operating Hours Coefficient	hrs	Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running
Constraint Storages	End Volume Coefficient	GWh	Coefficient of storage end volume.
Constraint Storages	Ramp Coefficient	GWh	Coefficient of change in storage end volume.
Constraint Storages	Natural Inflow Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of inflow.
Constraint Storages	Released Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of release.
Constraint Storages	Generator Release Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generator release.
Constraint Storages	Spill Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of spill.
Constraint Waterways	Flow Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of waterway flow.
Constraint Waterways	Ramp Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of change in waterway flow.
Constraint Physical Contracts	Load Coefficent	MW	Coefficient of cleared load bids
Constraint Physical Contracts	Generation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of cleared generation offers
Constraint Physical Contracts	Units Generating Coefficient	-	Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating.
Constraint Physical Contracts	Units Load Coefficient	-	Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load.
Constraint Physical Contracts	Generation Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted
Constraint Physical Contracts	Load Obligation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of total load obligation contracted
Constraint Purchasers	Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of purchaser demand
Constraint Purchasers	Load Obligation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of load obligation
Constraint Purchasers	Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of interruptible load provision
Constraint Reserves	Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of reserve provision
Constraint Reserves	Risk Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of reserve requirement
Constraint Reserves	Shortage Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of reserve shortage
Constraint Markets	Sales Coefficient	-	Coefficient of market sales
Constraint Markets	Purchases Coefficient	-	Coefficient of market purchases
Constraint Gas Fields	Production Coefficient	TJ	Coefficient of gas field production
Constraint Gas Storages	Withdrawal Coefficient	TJ	Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal
Constraint Gas Storages	Injection Coefficient	TJ	Coefficient of gas storage injection
Constraint Gas Storages	Ramp Coefficient	TJ	Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume
Constraint Gas Pipelines	Flow Coefficient	TJ	Coefficient of gas pipeline flow
Constraint Gas Nodes	Flow Coefficient	TJ	Coefficient of gas node flow
Constraint Regions	Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of region load
Constraint Regions	Load Squared Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the square of region load
Constraint Regions	Generation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of region generation
Constraint Regions	Generation Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region
Constraint Regions	Unserved Energy Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of unserved energy
Constraint Regions	Dump Energy Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of dump energy (over generation)
Constraint Regions	Net Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy
Constraint Zones	Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of zone load
Constraint Zones	Load Squared Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the square of zone load
Constraint Zones	Generation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of zone generation
Constraint Zones	Commited Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone
Constraint Zones	Unserved Energy Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of unserved energy
Constraint Zones	Dump Energy Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of dump energy (over generation)
Constraint Zones	Net Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy
Constraint Nodes	Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of node load
Constraint Nodes	Generation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of node generation
Constraint Nodes	Unserved Energy Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of unserved energy
Constraint Nodes	Dump Energy Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of dump energy (over generation)
Constraint Nodes	Net Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy
Constraint Nodes	Net Injection Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of node net injection
Constraint Nodes	Phase Angle Coefficient	degrees	Coefficient of node phase angle
Constraint Nodes	MLF Coefficient	-	Coefficient of marginal loss factor
Constraint Lines	Flow Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of flow
Constraint Lines	Flow Forward Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of reference direction flow
Constraint Lines	Flow Back Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow
Constraint Lines	Flow Squared Coefficient	-	Coefficient of square of line flow
Constraint Lines	Spare Export Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction
Constraint Lines	Spare Import Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction
Constraint Lines	Units Out Coefficient	-	Coefficient of units out
Constraint Transformers	Flow Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of transformer flow equation
Constraint Interfaces	Flow Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of flow
Constraint Interfaces	Flow Forward Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of reference direction flow
Constraint Interfaces	Flow Back Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow
Constraint Companies	Generation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of company generation
Constraint Companies	Committed Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of company committed generation capacity
Constraint Companies	Contract Volume Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of company contract volume
Constraint Conditions	RHS	-	RHS coefficient added when the condition is active
Constraint Decision Variables	Value Coefficient	-	Coefficient of Decision Variable value
Constraint Variables	Expected Value Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the variable expected value
Constraint Variables	Value Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the variable sample value
Constraint Variables	Error Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the variable sample error
Constraint Variables	Positive Error Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the positive sample error
Constraint Variables	Negative Error Coefficient	-	Coefficient of the negative sample error
Constraint Generators	Pump Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of pump load
Constraint Generators	Units Pumping Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of units pumping
Constraint Generators	Pump Units Started Coefficient	-	Coefficient on the number of pump units started
Constraint Generators	Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve
Constraint Storages	End Volume Coefficient	GWh	Coefficient of storage end volume.
Constraint Storages	Ramp Coefficient	GWh	Coefficient of change in storage end volume.
Constraint Storages	Inflow Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of inflow.
Constraint Storages	Release Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of release.
Constraint Storages	Generator Release Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generator release.
Constraint Storages	Spill Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of spill.
Constraint Waterways	Flow Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of waterway flow.
Constraint Waterways	Ramp Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of charge in waterway flow.
Constraint Generators	Units Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built
Constraint Generators	Units Retired Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired
Constraint Generators	Units Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built in the year
Constraint Generators	Units Retired in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired in the year
Constraint Generators	Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of capacity built
Constraint Generators	Capacity Retired Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of capacity retired
Constraint Generators	Reserve Provision Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves
Constraint Generators	Build Cost Coefficient	$	Coefficient of total build cost
Constraint Generators	Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date
Constraint Generators	Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year
Constraint Physical Contracts	Build Cost Coefficient	$	Coefficient of total build cost
Constraint Gas Fields	Units Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built
Constraint Gas Fields	Units Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built in the year
Constraint Gas Storages	Units Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built
Constraint Gas Storages	Units Retired Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired
Constraint Gas Storages	Units Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built in the year
Constraint Gas Storages	Units Retired in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired in the year
Constraint Gas Pipelines	Units Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built
Constraint Gas Pipelines	Units Retired Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired
Constraint Gas Pipelines	Units Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built in the year
Constraint Gas Pipelines	Units Retired in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired in the year
Constraint Gas Nodes	Units Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built
Constraint Gas Nodes	Units Retired Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired
Constraint Gas Nodes	Units Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built in the year
Constraint Gas Nodes	Units Retied in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired in the year
Constraint Regions	Generation Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of total generation capacity
Constraint Regions	Peak Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of annual peak load
Constraint Regions	Capacity Reserves Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of total capacity reserves
Constraint Regions	Generation Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation capacity built
Constraint Regions	Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation capacity retired
Constraint Regions	Generator Build Cost Coefficient	$	Coefficient of total cost of generator builds
Constraint Regions	Generators Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date
Constraint Regions	Generators Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year
Constraint Regions	Import Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of import capacity
Constraint Regions	Export Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of export capacity
Constraint Regions	Import Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of import capacity built
Constraint Regions	Export Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of export capacity built
Constraint Zones	Generation Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of total generation capacity
Constraint Zones	Peak Load Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of annual peak load
Constraint Zones	Capacity Reserves Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of total capacity reserves
Constraint Zones	Generation Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation capacity built
Constraint Zones	Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of generation capacity retired
Constraint Zones	Generator Build Cost Coefficient	$	Coefficient of total cost of generator builds
Constraint Zones	Generators Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date
Constraint Zones	Generators Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year
Constraint Zones	Import Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of import capacity
Constraint Zones	Export Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of export capacity
Constraint Zones	Import Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of import capacity built
Constraint Zones	Export Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of export capacity built
Constraint Lines	Export Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of export capacity
Constraint Lines	Import Capacity Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of import capacity
Constraint Lines	Units Built Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units built
Constraint Lines	Units Retired Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of units retired
Constraint Lines	Units Built in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of lines built in the year
Constraint Lines	Units Retired in Year Coefficient	-	Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year
Constraint Lines	Export Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of export capacity built
Constraint Lines	Import Capacity Built Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of import capacity built
Constraint Lines	Export Capacity Retired Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of export capacity retired
Constraint Lines	Import Capacity Retired Coefficient	MW	Coefficient of import capacity retired
Constraint Lines	Build Cost Coefficient	$	Coefficient of total build cost
Constraint Interfaces	Expansion Cost Coefficient	$	Coefficient of total expansion cost

Paragraphs:
The RHS Custom type is used to define multi-annual or other special timeframes such as quarterly constraints.

The left-hand side coefficients (a (i,j) ) are defined according to the simulation variable they multiply against. So for example if a term is to appear against Generator Generation you first add the Generator involved to the Generators collection of the Constraint then set the Generators Generation Coefficient property equal to the a (i,j) value. You can include any number of objects in the Constraint collections and set coefficients in virtually any combination required.

The Constraint Property Reference describes the Constraint properties and all available left-hand side coefficients.

1.2. Creating Constraints Constraints are defined with three basic elements: The sense of the constraint The right-hand side constant The left-hand side coefficients Constraints are always expressed in one of the following forms: A x ≤ b A x ≥ b A x = b The term, A, represents the matrix of all left-hand side coefficients, x represents the vector of 
                decision variables that appear in the constraints, and b is the vector of right-hand side constants. 
                In matrix form this can be illustrated as: The constraints cannot have decision variable coefficients (terms) on the right-hand side. 
                These must be entered as left-hand side coefficients by simply swapping signs: an example is 
                given below. Suppose a constraint is in the form: Line Flow ≤ 100 - 0.01 Generator Generation The terms in the constraint must be rearranged to group all decision variable coefficients on the 
                left-hand side: Line Flow + 0.01 Generator Generation ≤ 100 Note further than the term on the Line Flow here is implicitly unity, and thus the following 
                constraint is mathematically equivalent: - Line Flow - 0.01 Generator Generation ≥ -100 Notice how multiplying all coefficients through by minus one also causes the sense of the 
                constraint to flip. You are free to define constraints in the way that is most convenient. Each Constraint object should have its Sense property defined. The constant right-hand side 
                ( b vector) values are set by the properties in Table 1 depending on the period of the constraint: whereas RHS , RHS Hour , RHS Day , .... , RHS Year define a sequence of constraints; one for each period type in the horizon; RHS Custom defines a single constraint that notionally spans the entire horizon; more on this later. A Constraint object has several collections whose members determine what terms appear on 
                the left-hand side of the constraint. The left-hand-side terms refer to decision variables in the 
                formulation. Because more than one term is allowed to appear in the constraint for each type of object, these 
                coefficients default to a value of zero, and so you must set the coefficients even if they are unity.
                For example, to include the Generation of a Generator on the left-hand side of a constraint: Add the Generator to the Constraint Generators collection Set the Generation Coefficient property on that membership to 1. Before you create a Constraint you must first enable the Constraint class in Configuration and 
                any left-hand side coefficient properties you intend to set. For the below example the 
                configuration required looks like that in Figure 1 which shows the necessary property 
                selections in red highlight. Figure 1: Example Configuration for Constraint Class 1.3. Example In the Australian NEM, the regional transmission model is supplemented with 'generic'
                constraints. These constraints approximate the effect of transmission thermal, voltage and stability limits not 
                explicitly accounted for in the market's regional transportation model. An example of this situation is the 
                thermal transmission limit for exports from the "NSW" region to the "Snowy" region, which is 
                stated as: "NSW to SNOWY" Flow ≤ 1561 - 0.014 "NSW1" Demand + 0.107 x "MP1-2" Generation + 0.0107 x "WW7-8" Generation To enter this constraint through the user interface: Create a Constraint object, e.g. named "Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit)". In the Constraint dialog, double-click the Regions collection and using the Membership Editor, add the Region "NSW1". Return to the Constraint form. Likewise add the Generator objects "MP1", "MP2" and "WW7", "WW8" to the Constraint Generators collection, and the Line "NSW to SNOWY" to the Constraint Lines collection. Select "≤" as the Sense . Note that the Sense property is displayed as one of "≤", "≥", "=" but these are stored in the   database as - 1, 1, 0 respectively. The right hand side constant is 1561 and is set with the RHS property. The coefficients on flow, load and generation are set on the Constraint Lines , Constraint Regions and Constraint Generators collections respectively. The coefficients must be entered as if they 
                appeared on the left-hand side of the constraint; therefore: Line "SNOWY" has Flow Coefficient 1 Region "NSW1" has Load Coefficient 0.014 Generator objects "MP1-2" and "WW7-8" have Generation Coefficient of -0.107. The finished constraint should look like that in Figure 2 . Figure 2: Example Transmission Constraint With the RHS property defined this Constraint object will generate one constraint (row) in the 
                formulation for each interval of the simulation (half-hour in the Australian NEM case) If you print the LP file for this case, the following rows appear in the file: Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){1}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{1}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{1}
                          <= 1468.082 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){2}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{2}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{2}
                          <= 1466.304 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){3}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{3}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{3}
                          <= 1464.82 ... Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){24}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{24} = 1467.382 Note how the left-hand side does not contain any term related to Region Load but instead 
                the right-hand side constant changes dynamically. This is because the Load Coefficient term 
                can be pre-computed and shifted to the right-hand side. This kind of substitution of coefficients 
                for their equivalent constant term on the right-hand side is performed automatically. All of the properties here can be made dynamic and thus change across time e.g. the RHS might 
                change according to time of year. Note that transmission constraints such as this are by default not added to the 
                formulation 'up front' but instead are held in reserve and checked and added dynamically
                during the simulation. This is usually the most efficient way to enforce these constraints 
                because it avoids 'bloating' the formulation with many likely redundant constraints. You can 
                optionally force all transmission constraints to be added up front with the Transmission Formulate Upfront toggle. 1.4. Units of the Right-hand-side For interval constraints (those defining Constraint RHS ), the units of right-hand-side are 
                unscaled. For example if you are constraining: The maximum flow on a transmission line, the units are megawatts The generation of a generator, the units are megawatts The number of units generating at a generator, the units are number of unit For constraints that span multiple periods (those defining Constraint RHS Day , RHS Week , etc ) as well as RHS Hour the units for the right-hand-side match those in the reported summary output. So for 
                constraints on: Fuel the unit is TJ (or GBTU) Generation the unit is GWh Emissions the unit is tonne (or ton) Units generating or units started the unit is number of units with no scaling Capacity built, installed or available the unit is megawatts 1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraints are defined with three basic elements: The sense of the constraint The right-hand side constant The left-hand side coefficients Constraints are always expressed in one of the following forms: A x ≤ b A x ≥ b A x = b The term, A, represents the matrix of all left-hand side coefficients, x represents the vector of 
                decision variables that appear in the constraints, and b is the vector of right-hand side constants. 
                In matrix form this can be illustrated as: The constraints cannot have decision variable coefficients (terms) on the right-hand side. 
                These must be entered as left-hand side coefficients by simply swapping signs: an example is 
                given below. Suppose a constraint is in the form: Line Flow ≤ 100 - 0.01 Generator Generation The terms in the constraint must be rearranged to group all decision variable coefficients on the 
                left-hand side: Line Flow + 0.01 Generator Generation ≤ 100 Note further than the term on the Line Flow here is implicitly unity, and thus the following 
                constraint is mathematically equivalent: - Line Flow - 0.01 Generator Generation ≥ -100 Notice how multiplying all coefficients through by minus one also causes the sense of the 
                constraint to flip. You are free to define constraints in the way that is most convenient. Each Constraint object should have its Sense property defined. The constant right-hand side 
                ( b vector) values are set by the properties in Table 1 depending on the period of the constraint: whereas RHS , RHS Hour , RHS Day , .... , RHS Year define a sequence of constraints; one for each period type in the horizon; RHS Custom defines a single constraint that notionally spans the entire horizon; more on this later. A Constraint object has several collections whose members determine what terms appear on 
                the left-hand side of the constraint. The left-hand-side terms refer to decision variables in the 
                formulation. Because more than one term is allowed to appear in the constraint for each type of object, these 
                coefficients default to a value of zero, and so you must set the coefficients even if they are unity.
                For example, to include the Generation of a Generator on the left-hand side of a constraint: Add the Generator to the Constraint Generators collection Set the Generation Coefficient property on that membership to 1. Before you create a Constraint you must first enable the Constraint class in Configuration and 
                any left-hand side coefficient properties you intend to set. For the below example the 
                configuration required looks like that in Figure 1 which shows the necessary property 
                selections in red highlight. Figure 1: Example Configuration for Constraint Class 1.3. Example In the Australian NEM, the regional transmission model is supplemented with 'generic'
                constraints. These constraints approximate the effect of transmission thermal, voltage and stability limits not 
                explicitly accounted for in the market's regional transportation model. An example of this situation is the 
                thermal transmission limit for exports from the "NSW" region to the "Snowy" region, which is 
                stated as: "NSW to SNOWY" Flow ≤ 1561 - 0.014 "NSW1" Demand + 0.107 x "MP1-2" Generation + 0.0107 x "WW7-8" Generation To enter this constraint through the user interface: Create a Constraint object, e.g. named "Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit)". In the Constraint dialog, double-click the Regions collection and using the Membership Editor, add the Region "NSW1". Return to the Constraint form. Likewise add the Generator objects "MP1", "MP2" and "WW7", "WW8" to the Constraint Generators collection, and the Line "NSW to SNOWY" to the Constraint Lines collection. Select "≤" as the Sense . Note that the Sense property is displayed as one of "≤", "≥", "=" but these are stored in the   database as - 1, 1, 0 respectively. The right hand side constant is 1561 and is set with the RHS property. The coefficients on flow, load and generation are set on the Constraint Lines , Constraint Regions and Constraint Generators collections respectively. The coefficients must be entered as if they 
                appeared on the left-hand side of the constraint; therefore: Line "SNOWY" has Flow Coefficient 1 Region "NSW1" has Load Coefficient 0.014 Generator objects "MP1-2" and "WW7-8" have Generation Coefficient of -0.107. The finished constraint should look like that in Figure 2 . Figure 2: Example Transmission Constraint With the RHS property defined this Constraint object will generate one constraint (row) in the 
                formulation for each interval of the simulation (half-hour in the Australian NEM case) If you print the LP file for this case, the following rows appear in the file: Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){1}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{1}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{1}
                          <= 1468.082 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){2}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{2}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{2}
                          <= 1466.304 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){3}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{3}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{3}
                          <= 1464.82 ... Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){24}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{24} = 1467.382 Note how the left-hand side does not contain any term related to Region Load but instead 
                the right-hand side constant changes dynamically. This is because the Load Coefficient term 
                can be pre-computed and shifted to the right-hand side. This kind of substitution of coefficients 
                for their equivalent constant term on the right-hand side is performed automatically. All of the properties here can be made dynamic and thus change across time e.g. the RHS might 
                change according to time of year. Note that transmission constraints such as this are by default not added to the 
                formulation 'up front' but instead are held in reserve and checked and added dynamically
                during the simulation. This is usually the most efficient way to enforce these constraints 
                because it avoids 'bloating' the formulation with many likely redundant constraints. You can 
                optionally force all transmission constraints to be added up front with the Transmission Formulate Upfront toggle. 1.4. Units of the Right-hand-side For interval constraints (those defining Constraint RHS ), the units of right-hand-side are 
                unscaled. For example if you are constraining: The maximum flow on a transmission line, the units are megawatts The generation of a generator, the units are megawatts The number of units generating at a generator, the units are number of unit For constraints that span multiple periods (those defining Constraint RHS Day , RHS Week , etc ) as well as RHS Hour the units for the right-hand-side match those in the reported summary output. So for 
                constraints on: Fuel the unit is TJ (or GBTU) Generation the unit is GWh Emissions the unit is tonne (or ton) Units generating or units started the unit is number of units with no scaling Capacity built, installed or available the unit is megawatts 1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraints are defined with three basic elements:

Constraints are always expressed in one of the following forms:

The term, A, represents the matrix of all left-hand side coefficients, x represents the vector of 
                decision variables that appear in the constraints, and b is the vector of right-hand side constants. 
                In matrix form this can be illustrated as:

The constraints cannot have decision variable coefficients (terms) on the right-hand side. 
                These must be entered as left-hand side coefficients by simply swapping signs: an example is 
                given below.

Suppose a constraint is in the form:

The terms in the constraint must be rearranged to group all decision variable coefficients on the 
                left-hand side:

Note further than the term on the Line Flow here is implicitly unity, and thus the following 
                constraint is mathematically equivalent:

Notice how multiplying all coefficients through by minus one also causes the sense of the 
                constraint to flip. You are free to define constraints in the way that is most convenient.

Each Constraint object should have its Sense property defined. The constant right-hand side 
                ( b vector) values are set by the properties in Table 1 depending on the period of the constraint:

period type in the horizon;

on this later.

A Constraint object has several collections whose members determine what terms appear on 
                the left-hand side of the constraint. The left-hand-side terms refer to decision variables in the 
                formulation.

Because more than one term is allowed to appear in the constraint for each type of object, these 
                coefficients default to a value of zero, and so you must set the coefficients even if they are unity.
                For example, to include the Generation of a Generator on the left-hand side of a constraint:

Before you create a Constraint you must first enable the Constraint class in Configuration and 
                any left-hand side coefficient properties you intend to set. For the below example the 
                configuration required looks like that in Figure 1 which shows the necessary property 
                selections in red highlight.

1.3. Example In the Australian NEM, the regional transmission model is supplemented with 'generic'
                constraints. These constraints approximate the effect of transmission thermal, voltage and stability limits not 
                explicitly accounted for in the market's regional transportation model. An example of this situation is the 
                thermal transmission limit for exports from the "NSW" region to the "Snowy" region, which is 
                stated as: "NSW to SNOWY" Flow ≤ 1561 - 0.014 "NSW1" Demand + 0.107 x "MP1-2" Generation + 0.0107 x "WW7-8" Generation To enter this constraint through the user interface: Create a Constraint object, e.g. named "Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit)". In the Constraint dialog, double-click the Regions collection and using the Membership Editor, add the Region "NSW1". Return to the Constraint form. Likewise add the Generator objects "MP1", "MP2" and "WW7", "WW8" to the Constraint Generators collection, and the Line "NSW to SNOWY" to the Constraint Lines collection. Select "≤" as the Sense . Note that the Sense property is displayed as one of "≤", "≥", "=" but these are stored in the   database as - 1, 1, 0 respectively. The right hand side constant is 1561 and is set with the RHS property. The coefficients on flow, load and generation are set on the Constraint Lines , Constraint Regions and Constraint Generators collections respectively. The coefficients must be entered as if they 
                appeared on the left-hand side of the constraint; therefore: Line "SNOWY" has Flow Coefficient 1 Region "NSW1" has Load Coefficient 0.014 Generator objects "MP1-2" and "WW7-8" have Generation Coefficient of -0.107. The finished constraint should look like that in Figure 2 . Figure 2: Example Transmission Constraint With the RHS property defined this Constraint object will generate one constraint (row) in the 
                formulation for each interval of the simulation (half-hour in the Australian NEM case) If you print the LP file for this case, the following rows appear in the file: Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){1}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{1}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{1}
                          <= 1468.082 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){2}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{2}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{2}
                          <= 1466.304 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){3}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{3}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{3}
                          <= 1464.82 ... Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){24}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{24} = 1467.382 Note how the left-hand side does not contain any term related to Region Load but instead 
                the right-hand side constant changes dynamically. This is because the Load Coefficient term 
                can be pre-computed and shifted to the right-hand side. This kind of substitution of coefficients 
                for their equivalent constant term on the right-hand side is performed automatically. All of the properties here can be made dynamic and thus change across time e.g. the RHS might 
                change according to time of year. Note that transmission constraints such as this are by default not added to the 
                formulation 'up front' but instead are held in reserve and checked and added dynamically
                during the simulation. This is usually the most efficient way to enforce these constraints 
                because it avoids 'bloating' the formulation with many likely redundant constraints. You can 
                optionally force all transmission constraints to be added up front with the Transmission Formulate Upfront toggle. 1.4. Units of the Right-hand-side For interval constraints (those defining Constraint RHS ), the units of right-hand-side are 
                unscaled. For example if you are constraining: The maximum flow on a transmission line, the units are megawatts The generation of a generator, the units are megawatts The number of units generating at a generator, the units are number of unit For constraints that span multiple periods (those defining Constraint RHS Day , RHS Week , etc ) as well as RHS Hour the units for the right-hand-side match those in the reported summary output. So for 
                constraints on: Fuel the unit is TJ (or GBTU) Generation the unit is GWh Emissions the unit is tonne (or ton) Units generating or units started the unit is number of units with no scaling Capacity built, installed or available the unit is megawatts 1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

In the Australian NEM, the regional transmission model is supplemented with 'generic'
                constraints. These constraints approximate the effect of transmission thermal, voltage and stability limits not 
                explicitly accounted for in the market's regional transportation model. An example of this situation is the 
                thermal transmission limit for exports from the "NSW" region to the "Snowy" region, which is 
                stated as: "NSW to SNOWY" Flow ≤ 1561 - 0.014 "NSW1" Demand + 0.107 x "MP1-2" Generation + 0.0107 x "WW7-8" Generation To enter this constraint through the user interface: Create a Constraint object, e.g. named "Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit)". In the Constraint dialog, double-click the Regions collection and using the Membership Editor, add the Region "NSW1". Return to the Constraint form. Likewise add the Generator objects "MP1", "MP2" and "WW7", "WW8" to the Constraint Generators collection, and the Line "NSW to SNOWY" to the Constraint Lines collection. Select "≤" as the Sense . Note that the Sense property is displayed as one of "≤", "≥", "=" but these are stored in the   database as - 1, 1, 0 respectively. The right hand side constant is 1561 and is set with the RHS property. The coefficients on flow, load and generation are set on the Constraint Lines , Constraint Regions and Constraint Generators collections respectively. The coefficients must be entered as if they 
                appeared on the left-hand side of the constraint; therefore: Line "SNOWY" has Flow Coefficient 1 Region "NSW1" has Load Coefficient 0.014 Generator objects "MP1-2" and "WW7-8" have Generation Coefficient of -0.107. The finished constraint should look like that in Figure 2 . Figure 2: Example Transmission Constraint With the RHS property defined this Constraint object will generate one constraint (row) in the 
                formulation for each interval of the simulation (half-hour in the Australian NEM case) If you print the LP file for this case, the following rows appear in the file: Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){1}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{1}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{1} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{1}
                          <= 1468.082 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){2}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{2}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{2} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{2}
                          <= 1466.304 
                 Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){3}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{3}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{3} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{3}
                          <= 1464.82 ... Con_Max Flow NSW to SNOWY (Thermal Limit){24}: LinFlow_NSW to SNOWY{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_MP1{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_MP2{24} - 0.107 GenLoad_WW7{24}
                          - 0.107 GenLoad_WW8{24} = 1467.382 Note how the left-hand side does not contain any term related to Region Load but instead 
                the right-hand side constant changes dynamically. This is because the Load Coefficient term 
                can be pre-computed and shifted to the right-hand side. This kind of substitution of coefficients 
                for their equivalent constant term on the right-hand side is performed automatically. All of the properties here can be made dynamic and thus change across time e.g. the RHS might 
                change according to time of year. Note that transmission constraints such as this are by default not added to the 
                formulation 'up front' but instead are held in reserve and checked and added dynamically
                during the simulation. This is usually the most efficient way to enforce these constraints 
                because it avoids 'bloating' the formulation with many likely redundant constraints. You can 
                optionally force all transmission constraints to be added up front with the Transmission Formulate Upfront toggle. 1.4. Units of the Right-hand-side For interval constraints (those defining Constraint RHS ), the units of right-hand-side are 
                unscaled. For example if you are constraining: The maximum flow on a transmission line, the units are megawatts The generation of a generator, the units are megawatts The number of units generating at a generator, the units are number of unit For constraints that span multiple periods (those defining Constraint RHS Day , RHS Week , etc ) as well as RHS Hour the units for the right-hand-side match those in the reported summary output. So for 
                constraints on: Fuel the unit is TJ (or GBTU) Generation the unit is GWh Emissions the unit is tonne (or ton) Units generating or units started the unit is number of units with no scaling Capacity built, installed or available the unit is megawatts 1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

In the Australian NEM, the regional transmission model is supplemented with 'generic'
                constraints. These constraints approximate the effect of transmission thermal, voltage and stability limits not 
                explicitly accounted for in the market's regional transportation model. An example of this situation is the 
                thermal transmission limit for exports from the "NSW" region to the "Snowy" region, which is 
                stated as:

To enter this constraint through the user interface:

The coefficients on flow, load and generation are set on the Constraint Lines , Constraint Regions and Constraint Generators collections respectively. The coefficients must be entered as if they 
                appeared on the left-hand side of the constraint; therefore:

The finished constraint should look like that in Figure 2 .

With the RHS property defined this Constraint object will generate one constraint (row) in the 
                formulation for each interval of the simulation (half-hour in the Australian NEM case)

If you print the LP file for this case, the following rows appear in the file:

...

Note how the left-hand side does not contain any term related to Region Load but instead 
                the right-hand side constant changes dynamically. This is because the Load Coefficient term 
                can be pre-computed and shifted to the right-hand side. This kind of substitution of coefficients 
                for their equivalent constant term on the right-hand side is performed automatically.

All of the properties here can be made dynamic and thus change across time e.g. the RHS might 
                change according to time of year.

Note that transmission constraints such as this are by default not added to the 
                formulation 'up front' but instead are held in reserve and checked and added dynamically
                during the simulation. This is usually the most efficient way to enforce these constraints 
                because it avoids 'bloating' the formulation with many likely redundant constraints. You can 
                optionally force all transmission constraints to be added up front with the Transmission Formulate Upfront toggle.

1.4. Units of the Right-hand-side For interval constraints (those defining Constraint RHS ), the units of right-hand-side are 
                unscaled. For example if you are constraining: The maximum flow on a transmission line, the units are megawatts The generation of a generator, the units are megawatts The number of units generating at a generator, the units are number of unit For constraints that span multiple periods (those defining Constraint RHS Day , RHS Week , etc ) as well as RHS Hour the units for the right-hand-side match those in the reported summary output. So for 
                constraints on: Fuel the unit is TJ (or GBTU) Generation the unit is GWh Emissions the unit is tonne (or ton) Units generating or units started the unit is number of units with no scaling Capacity built, installed or available the unit is megawatts 1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

For interval constraints (those defining Constraint RHS ), the units of right-hand-side are 
                unscaled. For example if you are constraining: The maximum flow on a transmission line, the units are megawatts The generation of a generator, the units are megawatts The number of units generating at a generator, the units are number of unit For constraints that span multiple periods (those defining Constraint RHS Day , RHS Week , etc ) as well as RHS Hour the units for the right-hand-side match those in the reported summary output. So for 
                constraints on: Fuel the unit is TJ (or GBTU) Generation the unit is GWh Emissions the unit is tonne (or ton) Units generating or units started the unit is number of units with no scaling Capacity built, installed or available the unit is megawatts 1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

For interval constraints (those defining Constraint RHS ), the units of right-hand-side are 
                unscaled. For example if you are constraining:

For constraints that span multiple periods (those defining Constraint RHS Day , RHS Week , etc ) as well as RHS Hour the units for the right-hand-side match those in the reported summary output. So for 
                constraints on:

1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter. Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies. A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period. Figure 3: Example multi-annual constraint Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included. Figure 4: Example seasonal constraint 2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The property Constraint RHS Custom allows for the specification of constraints that span any 
                period of time such as multiple years (multi-annual constraint) or a subset of time such as a 
                season or quarter.

Figure 3 shows an example of a multi-annual constraint on the emissions produced by a Generator . Note the use of Date From and Date To on the constraint coefficient and how this 
                defines the timespan over which the constraint applies.

A constraint like this that spans multiple years requires a simulation step size large enough to 
                span the constraint. This can be achieved by either using LT Plan which defaults to a single step 
                across the planning horizon, or by customising the MT Schedule step size so that it spans a long 
                enough period.

Another interesting application of dates or timeslices on the constraint coefficients is for 
                defining seasonal constraints. Figure 4 is an example of a constraint on generation across the 
                summer season. Using RHS Year creates one constraint each year, but the Timeslice applied to 
                the coefficients means that only the required season is included.

2. Filtering Using Memberships A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership". An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set. Figure 5: Constraint using Filtering Membership The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint. Table 2: Memberships that can be used to filter constraint coefficients Collection Example Reserve.Constraints Generators Filter the Generator objects for Constraint Reserves [Provision Coefficient] Fuel.Constraints Fuels Filter the Fuel objects for Constraint Generators [Fuel Offtake Coefficient] Emission.Constraints Emissions Filter the Emission objects for Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient] Company.Constraints Companies Filter the Company objects for Constraint Emissions [Production Coefficient] 3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

A number of the left-hand side coefficients, like Generators Emission Coefficient will encompass every Emission produced by the Generator objects included in the Constraint. Often you will need to apply the constraint across a subset of those objects e.g. just one of the Emission objects rather than all. This can be achieved by including the membership of the Emission in the Constraint Emissions collection but without setting any coefficients. This is interpreted as a "filter membership".

An example is shown in Figure 5 where the emissions of a set of generators are under constraint using Constraint Generators [Emission Coefficient], but because the generators produce 
                multiple emissions it is necessary to filter the coefficients by including the Constraint Emissions 
                "CO2" membership with no coefficient set.

The membership types listed in Table 2 can be used to filter the objects included in a Constraint.



3. Switching Constraints On and Off Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can: include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a condition occurs. Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below. 3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Every Constraint object defined is assumed to exist for the entire simulation period. Even if the 
                right-hand-side value is defined only after a user-defined Date From, the constraint, with 
                default zero right-hand-side constant, will still appear in every period before that date. But userdefined constraints often need to be made conditional in one of a number of ways. You can:

condition occurs.

Commonly these latter two methods would apply to generic constraints such as transmission 
                nomograms, or transmission network security constraints. These constraints often require 
                different forms under different conditions - examples are shown below.

3.1. Switched by Scenario It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input. To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly". Table 3: Constraint switched by Scenario Constraint Property Value Units Band Data File Scenario ARDNA RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ARDNA RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly ERNE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily ERNE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LEE RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LEE RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly LIFFEY RHS Day 0 - 1 DAILY.csv Hydro Daily LIFFEY RHS Month 0 - 1 MONTHLY.csv Hydro Monthly Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated. 3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

It is a general rule that a Constraint will be dropped from the formulation if no right-hand side 
                properties (or 'constant terms') are defined/included in the executing Model . Right-hand-side is 
                thus the 'key' property for a Constraint in that it is used to switch the constraint on/off by 
                including/excluding the property definition. Constraint objects can be associated with Scenario objects in the same manner as any other input.

To specify that a constraint appears only in Model runs that include a given Scenario , simply 'tag' all 
                right-hand-side property values with that Scenario name (in the Scenario column). An example 
                is given in Table 3 . Here the Constraint changes from being a daily constraint to monthly 
                according to the defined Scenario tags. To apply the constraint in a Model , include one of the Scenario objects "Hydro Daily" or "Hydro Monthly".



Note that a warning is not issued if a Constraint appears in the Model with no right-hand side 
                values defined because the switching of constraints in/out of models using right-hand side with Scenario is normal procedure. Note that excluded constraints will not appear in the solution 
                database. In the above example, no default right-hand-side is defined so if neither Scenario is 
                included in a Model , the Constraint will not be formulated.

3.2. Switched by Time Period In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts. There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period: swamp the right-hand side value so the constraint can never bind in periods it is not required; or allow zero-penalty violations of the constraint in periods it is not required; or tag all left-hand side coefficients with Date From , Date To and or Timeslice so that only the needed time periods are collected. Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below). Table 3: Swamping a Constraint Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 9999 - RHS 500 - 1/01/2004 Table 4: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Soft Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price 5000 - 1/01/2004 Table 5: Relaxing with Zero Penalty Price and Hard Constraint Otherwise Property Value Units Date From Sense ≤ - RHS 500 - Penalty Price 0 - Penalty Price -1 - 1/01/2004 You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price : use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period. The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability. However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations. 3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

In some situations, a constraint may be active only after a certain date and/or inactivate after a 
                certain date. Tagging the right-hand side with a Scenario name can only switch the constraint in 
                and out of the entire horizon, not selected parts.

There are three ways to switch constraints in/out by time period:

Table 3 shows an example of an upper-limit constraint being swamped by a large right-hand side value prior to the period in which the constraint applies. Tables 4 and 5 show 
                examples of allowing zero-priced violations of the constraint prior to the period in which the 
                constraint applies using the Constraint Penalty Price property, which creates a soft constraint 
                (see below).







You have two choices when relaxing the constraint with Penalty Price :

The approach of allowing using a large positive price when the constraint is active has the 
                disadvantage that large penalty values may cause numerical instability in the solver and slow
                execution time. In general consider a penalty price of 1E+6 for interval constraints or 1E+9 as upper limits on what is 
                safe to use without causing numerical instability.

However, it is not always straight-forward to swamp a constraint, especially 
                equality constraints, thus where possible use the swamping method, otherwise use the penalty 
                method with -1 for hard constraint or keep the Penalty Price as low as you need to make the 
                constraint bind without violations.

3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule . Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan . 3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraints can be switched in and out of each phase of the simulation using the properties 
                Constraint Include in LT Plan , Include in PASA , Include in MT Schedule , and Include in ST Schedule .

Note further that constraints using coefficients dedicated to capacity expansion planning will only be formulated in LT Plan .

3.4. Conditional Constraints The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized. NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class. Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection. By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property. The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often. 3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The simulator includes a special class of objects called Variable , which can be used with 
                Constraint to produce truly conditional constraints, i.e. constraints that activate automatically 
                when some user-defined set of conditions occurs. These conditions can be static or they can be 
                dynamic, but they cannot be optimized.

NOTE: To have a Constraint switch on/off according to an optimized decision you must use the Decision Variable class.

Once the required Variable objects have been defined they can be applied to Constraint objects 
                to create conditional constraints. To make a Constraint conditional, simply add the appropriate Variable object(s) to the Constraint Conditions collection.

By default, when multiple conditions are included in a constraint, the conditions must all be 
                active simultaneously to activate the Constraint. Thus the Variable objects are combined with 
                AND logic. You can change this behaviour and make OR conditions by setting the Constraint Condition Logic property.

The output property Constraint Hours Active gives feedback on when 
                constraints have been activated and how often.

3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active. Table 6: Adjusting RHS using a Condition Constraint Property Value Units V-SA MAX Sense ≤ - V-SA MAX RHS 400 - Constraint Lines Property Value Units V-SA MAX V-SA Flow Coefficient 1 MW V-SA MAX TORRB > 2 UNIT RHS Coefficient 100 - Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW. 3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Condition objects can also be used to modify the right-hand side (constant term) of a constraint 
                when they are active. The property is added to the right-hand-side when the constraint is active.



Here the limit for flow on the transmission line "V-SA" is 400 in all periods except if the Variable "TORRB > 2 UNITS" is active, in which case the limit is 400 + 100 = 500 MW.

3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example: Table 7: Conditional Property Constraint Property Value Units Band Date From Date To Timeslice Condition V-SA MAX RHS 550 - 1 Load < 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 480 - 1 Load < 3000, Load >= 2500 V-SA MAX RHS 400 - 1 - It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use. NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued. 4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Conditions may also be used to change the right-hand-side or coefficients in a constraint 
                according to which condition is active at any one time as in the following example:



It is important not to 'overlap' conditional data. In the above example two conditions are AND 
                together on the value of 480 so that this statement does not overlap with the previous 
                condition. If we simply applied the condition "Load < 3000" to the value, both conditional values
                would be active if the load were less than 2500, creating some ambiguity as to which value to 
                use.

NOTE: Overlapping conditions are difficult for the simulation engine to detect and no warning is issued.

4. Soft Constraints By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible. For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example: Table 8: Uniform Penalty Function Property Value Units Memo Sense ≤ - RHS 2000 - TJ Penalty Price 5000 - $/TJ Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms. If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side. Table 9: Step Penalty Function Property Value Units Band Memo Sense ≤ - - - RHS 2000 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 500 - 1 TJ Penalty Quantity 1000 - 2 TJ Penalty Price 5000 - 1 $/TJ Penalty Price 15000 - 2 $/TJ 5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

By default, constraints are 'hard' constraints, i.e. they can potentially cause infeasibilities in the 
                simulation. Although the simulator can automatically recover from infeasibilities the execution 
                will be slow during feasibility repair and consume a lot more memory so it is always desirable 
                to create constraints that are always feasible.

For maximum simulation speed and if you are certain that a user-defined constraint will never 
                generate an infeasibility then it is best to leave it to be modelled has a 'hard' constraint.  There 
                are situations, however, in which constraint violations could, and should, be allowed as in the 
                section Switching Constraints On and Off. The Penalty Quantity and Penalty Price properties 
                of the Constraint object allow you to set up violation in multiple bands.
                In the simplest case use the Penalty Price alone. Constraint violations will be priced at this 
                incremental value and the amount of violation is notionally unlimited. This is illustrated in the 
                following example:



Note the use of the Memo field to label the units of the Constraint terms.

If you wish to setup a number of penalty bands each with a different penalty price, use Penalty Price in combination with Penalty Quantity as in the following example. Note that the units 
                for Penalty Quantity are always the same as those of the right-hand-side.



5. Implied Constraints The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime. Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples. Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint. Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24. 6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The simulator provides a number of 'shortcut' properties that allow you to create a Constraint
                with a simple property definition rather than having to create a Constraint object and add the 
                coefficients, etc . These special properties are converted to Constraint objects by the simulation 
                engine at runtime.

Examples of implied constraints include Generator Max Energy Day and Emission Max Production Year . Refer to the property pages for each class for more examples.

Note that these implied Constraint objects appear in the formulation but are not reported on in 
                the solution database. They are limited in that they can only formulate constraints on the single 
                object the property is defined on, thus if you wish to define constraints that include terms for 
                several different types of object you will need to create your own Constraint objects. For 
                example a constraint on an Emission will encompass all Generators and/or Fuels that 
                produce that Emission , so if you need to limit the constraint to a subset of those sources you will 
                need to use a Constraint.

Note: Hourly Implied Constraints (e.g. Generator Max Energy Hour ) only apply to sub-hourly models i.e. those where Horizon Periods per Day is greater than 24.

6. Constraint Reporting Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class. Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were: 1 x Generator "A" Generation + 1 x Generator "B" Generation ≤ 500 The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation. The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack. Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation. Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint. Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function. Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically. Table 10: Constraint Report Properties Property Unit Description Activity - Constraint activity at optimal solution Slack - Constraint slack at optimal solution Violation - Constraint violation at optimal solution Hours Binding hrs Number of hours the constraint is binding RHS - Constraint RHS constant Price $ Constraint dual variable value at optimal solution Hours Active hrs Number of hours the constraint is active (according to applied Conditions) Penalty Cost $ ($000) Contribution of penalty violations to the primal objective function Rental $ ($000) Contribution of activity to the dual objective function 7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Table 10 lists the reporting properties for the Constraint class.

Activity is the total of all left-hand-side terms, so for example if the constraint were:

The activity here is the sum of Generator "A" and "B" generation.

The RHS is the constant term, in this case 500. The Slack is the difference between the Activity and the RHS , thus if Activity is 400, the Slack is 100. Note that by convention greater-than-or-equal-to constraints have negative slack.

Violation applies if the constraint defines a penalty function (see Soft Constraints ) or if the 
                Constraint has been repaired (see Feasibility Repair ). Penalty Cost is the objective function 
                contribution of the violation.

Hours Binding indicates if the Constraint is binding in the period, which is defined 
                as having zero slack and a non-zero Price . Price is the shadow price of the constraint, equal to the optimal value of the dual variable associated with the constraint.

Rental is the shadow price multiplied by the activity and represents the contribution of the 
                constraint to the dual objective function.

Constraint Hours Active indicates if the constraint is included in the formulation. This applies to 
                conditional constraints and to constraints identified as transmission-specific that are added to 
                the formulation dynamically.



7. Feasibility Repair If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight. Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations. Example To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined: Figure 6: Example Infeasible Constraint The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears: The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible". In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed. After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible. Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function. In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great. 8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

If any of the mathematical programming problems formulated during simulation is infeasible, 
                an automatic feasibility repair is invoked. The goal of the feasibility repair is to find a repair to 
                the problem that is optimal with respect to the original objective function combined with 
                penalties for violating constraints and/or variable bounds. These penalties are set internally 
                and create a priority list for violations. User-defined constraints are usually the first constraints 
                violated, having the lowest weight.

Whenever possible infeasibilities should be avoided. There is significant overhead in repairing 
                the problem and the repair might not always be 'sensible'. Log messages can help you identify 
                the infeasibility and guide you to the correct solution, which might involve changing Constraint
                data such as the right-hand-side or adding a Penalty Price to allow violations.

Example

To demonstrate feasibility repair, let's assume the following Constraint is defined:



The constraint is clearly infeasible as it is attempting to hold Generator "thermal" Generation below zero. When this is run in a simulation the report below appears:

solver as infeasible. The style of this message might vary depending upon the solver 
                used, but they key point is that the problem status is "Primal Infeasible".

bounds in the problem that might be related to the infeasibility. This is simply a list of 
                those constraints and bounds that have non-zero dual values at the infeasible solution.
                The true cause of the infeasibility will be listed here, but there may be many other 
                related elements listed.

the 'optimal' problem repair if one exists. It lists all constraints and/or variable bounds 
                that have been modified. In this example the violation variables on each of the 24 
                (hourly) constraints has been modified from zero upper bound to an upper bound of 10. 
                This relieves the constraint and makes the problem feasible.

Constraint objects are always denoted in these reports with the format "Con_<name>{p}" 
                where <name> is the name of the Constraint and p is the period number in the simulation step. 
                The violation variable "Vio_" and slack variable "Slk_" are always included even if the 
                constraint does not define a penalty function.

In general not every infeasible problem can be repaired, but if the infeasibility is due only to 
                user-defined constraints then a repair is always possible by relaxing one or more of those 
                constraints. The only reason that such a repair would fail is if the memory required to find the 
                optimal repair is too great.

8. Constraint Decomposition 8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.



8.1. Introduction Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc. 8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Inter-temporal constraints such as fuel contract constraints, emission limits, and hydro energy 
                limits are an important feature of electricity market modelling. The simulator solves medium term constraints like this in two phases. In the first phase ( MT Schedule ), all inter-temporal 
                constraints are formulated directly. To be able to model long horizons like a year in a single 
                model, the MT Schedule uses temporal compression via load-duration curves. In the second 
                phase ( ST Schedule ) every interval of the horizon ( e.g. hour, half-hour, or 5-minute) is modelled 
                in detail but the horizon is divided into a sequence of steps, each having a user-defined number 
                of intervals e.g. 24 hours, a week etc.

8.2. Constraint Period Type As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side. 8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

As described earlier, constraints may be defined to apply across days, week, months, years, or 
                multiple years. This behaviour is determined by the particular right-hand side property set:
                [RHS], [RHS Day], [RHS Week], [RHS Month], [RHS Year], or [RHS Custom]. Only the right-hand 
                side property carries the period type of the constraint and other constraint properties such as 
                [Penalty Quantity] will automatically take the same period type as the right-hand side.

8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised. However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled. For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly. 8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The simulation is a truly inter-temporal optimization; constraints that sum or relate values 
                across time periods are formulated directly in the optimization, ensuring that all decisions are 
                co-optimized with respect to those constraints, and the constraints are always met optimally or 
                correctly identified as infeasible. This contrasts with many other simulators, which simulate 
                period-by-period and simply record the activity on inter-temporal constraints and take some 
                rule-of-thumb approach to enforcing them. The multi-phase inter-temporal approach is 
                superior because both the physical (primal) and pricing (dual) impact of the constraints are 
                recognised.

However, to solve the simulation problem as an inter-temporal optimization, every constraint 
                must have a time period less-than or equal-to the length of the simulation step size, or put 
                another way the simulation step size must be long enough to 'cover' the longest user-defined 
                inter-temporal constraint. The ST Schedule phase is used to produce the time-sequential
                (chronological) simulation results. Because even modest sized systems can produce large 
                optimization problems in ST Schedule the simulator is generally configured (via Horizon
                properties) to solve the horizon in steps of one week or day or in some cases even smaller steps.
                With each step every interval, e.g. hour, half-hour, 5-minute interval, is modelled.

For example, a one-year simulation is commonly solved as 365 one-day optimizations in ST 
                Schedule. This means that the simulator will create 365 optimization problems each spanning a 
                day and solve these sequentially. Each step will include a full representation of the simulation 
                problem for each interval. In this multi-step scheme, inter-temporal constraints such as annual 
                limits cannot be directly represented - because the maximum span on any one optimization 
                problem is just one day (in this example). One approach to this is to increase the size of the ST 
                Schedule step, e.g. to change the ST Schedule to solve one step of 365 days, i.e. solve the entire 
                simulation problem as a single optimization problem. But, as noted above, this would lead to a single optimization problem that is too large to solve. Thus to keep the size of the ST Schedule to 
                a reasonable level the simulator includes long and mid-term phases ( LT Plan and MT Schedule ) 
                which work with ST Schedule to decompose long term constraints into equivalent short-term 
                constraints, small enough for ST Schedule to model directly.

8.4. Decomposition Method The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here. Example: Constraint Property Value Units Annual CO2 Sense ≤ - Annual CO2 RHS Year 200000000 - Constraint Emission Property Value Units Annual CO2 CO2 Production Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions. Constraint Property Year Ending Value Units Annual CO2 Activity 30-JUN-05 171169113.04 - Annual CO2 Slack 30-JUN-05 28830886.96 - Annual CO2 Violation 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Price 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Binding 30-JUN-05 - - Annual CO2 Hours Active 30-JUN-05 - - The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year. The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge". Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7. In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9. Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed. Regarding decomposition in general, note the following: If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints. If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case. If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods. 9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The role of the MT Schedule (and to a lesser extent LT Plan ) in constraint modelling is to 
                decompose inter-temporal constraints that would otherwise be too long for ST Schedule . The 
                Constraint [Decomposition Method] controls the style of decomposition. You can choose 
                between decomposition of the constraint quantities or decomposition on price. In general 
                quantity decomposition is most appropriate and this is described here.

Example:

This example defines a constraint on annual " CO2 " emissions. If the simulation uses ST Schedule in conjunction with MT Schedule , the simulator will use the MT Schedule emissions output to 
                allocate the emission constraint intelligently across the steps of the ST Schedule , e.g. if the ST 
                Schedule step-size is one day then the simulator allocates the (annual) emission constraint limit 
                to ST Schedule days based on the MT Schedule emissions.

The table shows the annual summary results for the " CO2 " Emission. The total [Activity] is less 
                than the input right-hand side because the constraint is slack, i.e. there are less emissions being 
                produced than limited by the [RHS Year]. The [Slack] output shows the total slack on the 
                constraint for the year.

The [Activity], [Slack], and [Violation] are decomposed to all other reporting periods (interval, 
                day, week, etc). Figure 7 shows the daily activity on the constraint with slack. ST Schedule is set 
                up to run in daily steps so it is this profile of daily constraint activity and slack that is used to 
                create constraints for ST Schedule . The simulator creates these constraints and passes them to ST Schedule automatically as part of a step called the "MT to ST Schedule Bridge".

Figure 7: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for slack constrain



Constraints that are slack, or soft constraints that have violation, in MT Schedule have their 
                activity, slack and violation decomposed to the ST Schedule . This ensures that ST Schedule does 
                not mistakenly create binding constraints in each of its steps when the original constraint is 
                slack, or in the case of soft constraints it ensures that ST Schedule allows appropriate violations. 
                The allocation of slack and violation across sub-periods is a non-trivial problem. The simulator
                optimizes the allocation to produce the smooth distribution shown in Figure 7.

In the case where the constraint has some violation (the properties [Penalty Price] and or 
                [Penalty Quantity] are defined), the allocation of violation follows the constraint activity as 
                shown in Figure 8. Finally, if the constraint is exactly binding (no slack or violation) only the 
                constraint activity and any allowable violation is passed to ST Schedule as shown in Figure 9.

Figure 8: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for constraint with 
                violation

Figure 9: MT Schedule Constraint Activity, Slack, and Violation decomposed to days for binding constraint



Having performed the decomposition of these inter-temporal constraints, the simulator creates 
                the set of constraints to be used in each ST Schedule step. In the emission example, each ST 
                Schedule step will solve using a daily emission limit.  The aggregate results for these constraints 
                will equate closely with the annual results from MT Schedule or multi-annual results from LT 
                Plan ensuring that the original limit is obeyed.

Regarding decomposition in general, note the following:

9. Constraints on Maximum Value Across Time 9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

9.1. Introduction Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints. 9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraint LHS Type controls the way the simulator forms up constraint left-hand side terms. Three types of equations are supported: 'SUM', 'MAXSUM' and 'MAX'. This provides more options for user to model constraints.

9.2. SUM Type The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS 400 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. TotalGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 400 Example: Constraint Property Value Units TotalGen Sense ≤ - TotalGen RHS Day 900 GW Constraint Generator Property Value Units TotalGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - TotalGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day. TotalGen :  ∑ (i) ( Gen1_Load (i) + Gen2_Load (i) + Gen3_Load (i) ) ≤ 900,000 9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The default type is 'SUM' that LHS value of the equation is the sum of all terms in the left-hand side across the time period.

Example:

This example defines a constraint on total generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below.

Example:

Once [RHS Day] is defined, the equation will count all the simulation intervals of a day.

9.3. MAXSUM Type The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below. MaxSumGen : Gen1_Load + Gen2_Load + Gen3_Load ≤ 800 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxSumGen Sense ≤ - MaxSumGen RHS Day 800 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxSumGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxSumGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval. MaxSumGen (1) : Gen1_Load (1) + Gen2_Load (1) + Gen3_Load (1) ≤ 800 MaxSumGen (2) : Gen1_Load (2) + Gen2_Load (2) + Gen3_Load (2) ≤ 800 : MaxSumGen (24) : Gen1_Load (24) + Gen2_Load (24) + Gen3_Load (24) ≤ 800 9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The 'MAXSUM' type is for the maximum value of the sum of left-hand side coefficient across the period.

Example:

When using 'MAXSUM' type for interval constraints, it has the same formula as 'SUM' type. This example defines a constraint on sum generation of three generators. The math equation for each interval can be expressed as below.

Example:

When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAXSUM' as in above Example, simulator will not examine the total sum of a day, but will apply the RHS value to every interval.

9.4. MAX Type The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period. Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved. MaxGen : Max { Gen1_Load , Gen2_Load , Gen3_Load } ≤ 300 Example: Constraint Property Value Units MaxGen Sense ≤ - MaxGen RHS Day 300 MW Constraint Generator Property Value Units MaxGen Gen1 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen2 Generation Coefficient 1 - MaxGen Gen3 Generation Coefficient 1 - When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval. MaxGen (1) : Max { Gen1_Load (1) , Gen2_Load (1) , Gen3_Load (1) } ≤ 300 MaxGen (2) : Max { Gen1_Load (2) , Gen2_Load (2) , Gen3_Load (2) } ≤ 300 : MaxGen (24) : Max { Gen1_Load (24) , Gen2_Load (24) , Gen3_Load (24) } ≤ 300 9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

The 'MAX' type is for the maximum of individual terms in the left-hand side and across the period.

Example:

It performs like a math Max function of all the terms involved.

Example:

When inter-temporal constraints are defined with 'MAX' as in above Example, the defined RHS value will be use as max value for every interval.

9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients. 9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

A large number of coefficients are available for use in defining Constraint objects. Not all 
                coefficients apply to all simulation phases though. Most coefficients relate to the production 
                simulation, some to capacity expansion planning only and others are special cases for use in 
                hydro modelling. Use the following as a guide to the appropriate use of the coefficients.

9.5.1. Production Simulation Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 . Table 2: Constraint Coefficients for Production Simulation Collection Property Unit(Metric) Description Constraint Generators Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the generator-terminal Constraint Generators Generation Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation SUM Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of the summed generation measured at the generator terminal Constraint Generators Generation Sent Out Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation measured at the station gate Constraint Generators Capacity Factor Coefficient - Coefficient of capacity factor. Constraint Generators Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours of operation. Constraint Generators Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units generating Constraint Generators Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units started Constraint Generators Units Shutdown Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units shutdown Constraint Generators Hours Down Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the generating unit has been off Constraint Generators Available Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of available capacity Constraint Generators Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of committed capacity Constraint Generators Fuel Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Generators Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of emission production Constraint Generators Heat Production Coefficient GJ Coefficient of heat production Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp Constraint Generators Ramp Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp up Constraint Generators Ramp Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp down Constraint Generators Ramp Up Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp up violation Constraint Generators Ramp Down Violation Coefficient MW Coefficient of max ramp down violation Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of total reserve provision (from all types) Constraint Generators Spinning Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provided by spare capacity Constraint Generators Sync Cond Reserve Coefficient MW Coefficient of synchronous condenser reserve provision Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Generators Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Raise Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation raise reserve provision Constraint Generators Regulation Lower Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of regulation lower reserve provision Constraint Generators Replacement Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of replacement reserve provision Constraint Generators Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility up Constraint Generators Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of flexibility down Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Up Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility up Constraint Generators Ramp Flexibility Down Coefficient MW Coefficient of ramp flexibility down Constraint Generators Installed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of installed capacity Constraint Generators Rated Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity as measured by Rating Constraint Generators Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units out of service Constraint Fuels Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel offtake Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient kg Coefficient of fuel emission Constraint Fuel Contracts Offtake Coefficient GJ Coefficient of fuel contract offtake Constraint Emissions Production Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions produced Constraint Emissions Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Abatement Coefficient kg Coefficient of emissions abated Constraint Abatements Operating Hours Coefficient hrs Coefficient of number of hours the emission abatement technology is running Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Natural Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Released Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of change in waterway flow. Constraint Physical Contracts Load Coefficent MW Coefficient of cleared load bids Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of cleared generation offers Constraint Physical Contracts Units Generating Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is generating. Constraint Physical Contracts Units Load Coefficient - Coefficient of 0,1 value indicating if the physical contracting is a load. Constraint Physical Contracts Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity contracted Constraint Physical Contracts Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total load obligation contracted Constraint Purchasers Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of purchaser demand Constraint Purchasers Load Obligation Coefficient MW Coefficient of load obligation Constraint Purchasers Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of interruptible load provision Constraint Reserves Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve provision Constraint Reserves Risk Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve requirement Constraint Reserves Shortage Coefficient MW Coefficient of reserve shortage Constraint Markets Sales Coefficient - Coefficient of market sales Constraint Markets Purchases Coefficient - Coefficient of market purchases Constraint Gas Fields Production Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas field production Constraint Gas Storages Withdrawal Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage withdrawal Constraint Gas Storages Injection Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas storage injection Constraint Gas Storages Ramp Coefficient TJ Coefficient of change in gas storage end volume Constraint Gas Pipelines Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas pipeline flow Constraint Gas Nodes Flow Coefficient TJ Coefficient of gas node flow Constraint Regions Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of region load Constraint Regions Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of region load Constraint Regions Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of region generation Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the region Constraint Regions Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Regions Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Regions Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Zones Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone load Constraint Zones Load Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of the square of zone load Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of zone generation Constraint Zones Commited Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity committed in the zone Constraint Zones Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Zones Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Zones Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of node load Constraint Nodes Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of node generation Constraint Nodes Unserved Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of unserved energy Constraint Nodes Dump Energy Coefficient MW Coefficient of dump energy (over generation) Constraint Nodes Net Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of load net of unserved and dump energy Constraint Nodes Net Injection Coefficient MW Coefficient of node net injection Constraint Nodes Phase Angle Coefficient degrees Coefficient of node phase angle Constraint Nodes MLF Coefficient - Coefficient of marginal loss factor Constraint Lines Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Lines Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Lines Flow Squared Coefficient - Coefficient of square of line flow Constraint Lines Spare Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the reference direction Constraint Lines Spare Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient on spare line capacity in the counter-reference direction Constraint Lines Units Out Coefficient - Coefficient of units out Constraint Transformers Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of transformer flow equation Constraint Interfaces Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Forward Coefficient MW Coefficient of reference direction flow Constraint Interfaces Flow Back Coefficient MW Coefficient of counter-reference direction flow Constraint Companies Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of company generation Constraint Companies Committed Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of company committed generation capacity Constraint Companies Contract Volume Coefficient MW Coefficient of company contract volume Constraint Conditions RHS - RHS coefficient added when the condition is active Constraint Decision Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of Decision Variable value Constraint Variables Expected Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable expected value Constraint Variables Value Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample value Constraint Variables Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the variable sample error Constraint Variables Positive Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the positive sample error Constraint Variables Negative Error Coefficient - Coefficient of the negative sample error 9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraint coefficients that apply to the production simulation are detailed in Table 2 .



9.5.2. Hydro Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week. Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Pump Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump load Constraint Generators Units Pumping Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of units pumping Constraint Generators Pump Units Started Coefficient - Coefficient on the number of pump units started Constraint Generators Pump Dispatchable Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of pump dispatchable load reserve Constraint Storages End Volume Coefficient GWh Coefficient of storage end volume. Constraint Storages Ramp Coefficient GWh Coefficient of change in storage end volume. Constraint Storages Inflow Coefficient MW Coefficient of inflow. Constraint Storages Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of release. Constraint Storages Generator Release Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator release. Constraint Storages Spill Coefficient MW Coefficient of spill. Constraint Waterways Flow Coefficient MW Coefficient of waterway flow. Constraint Waterways Ramp Coefficient MW Coefficient of charge in waterway flow. The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details). 9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

Constraint coefficients specifically for use in hydro modelling are detailed in Table 3. Some of these 
                properties are special in that they deal with values of variables at specific intervals in time e.g. Constraint Storages [ StorageConstraints .End Volume Coefficient|End Volume Coefficient]] refers to the end-of-period storage volume, and the period is 
                determined by the version of right-hand-side used. For example, if you use [RHS Week] then the 
                coefficient refers to the volume at the end of each week.

Table 3: Hydro Constraint Coefficients

The units for Storage [End Volume] and Waterway [Flow] are determined by the Hydro Model
                database setting (see the User Guide for details).

9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries. Collection Property Unit (Metric) Description Constraint Generators Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Generators Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Generators Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Generators Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Generators Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity built Constraint Generators Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of capacity retired Constraint Generators Reserve Provision Coefficient MW Coefficient of generator contribution to capacity reserves Constraint Generators Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Physical Contracts Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Gas Fields Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Fields Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Storages Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Storages Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Pipelines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Gas Nodes Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built in the year Constraint Gas Nodes Units Retied in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired in the year Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Regions Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Regions Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Regions Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Regions Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Regions Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Regions Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Regions Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Regions Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Regions Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Regions Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Coefficient MW Coefficient of total generation capacity Constraint Zones Peak Load Coefficient MW Coefficient of annual peak load Constraint Zones Capacity Reserves Coefficient MW Coefficient of total capacity reserves Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity built Constraint Zones Generation Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of generation capacity retired Constraint Zones Generator Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total cost of generator builds Constraint Zones Generators Built Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built to date Constraint Zones Generators Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient on binary variable indicating if any generation capacity is built in the year Constraint Zones Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Zones Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Zones Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Zones Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity Constraint Lines Import Capacity Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity Constraint Lines Units Built Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units built Constraint Lines Units Retired Coefficient - Coefficient of number of units retired Constraint Lines Units Built in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines built in the year Constraint Lines Units Retired in Year Coefficient - Coefficient of number of lines retired in the year Constraint Lines Export Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity built Constraint Lines Import Capacity Built Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity built Constraint Lines Export Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of export capacity retired Constraint Lines Import Capacity Retired Coefficient MW Coefficient of import capacity retired Constraint Lines Build Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total build cost Constraint Interfaces Expansion Cost Coefficient $ Coefficient of total expansion cost 10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

A number of special coefficients are provided for use in LT Plan capacity expansion planning. 
                These coefficients must be used exclusively with [RHS Year] because LT Plan capacity decisions 
                are made at annual boundaries.

10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6. A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form: ∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week. A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant. However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.

For more on Constraint RHS Constant Expressions, see the Concise Modelling Guide, section 10.6.

A PLEXOS Constraint object defines a set of constraints that appear in the mathematical programming problem. Constraints are of the general form:

∑ left-hand side terms {≤,=.≥} right-hand side constant

Depending on the period type of the right-hand side property, a single Constraint object can generate one or multiple constraints in the formulation e.g. [RHS] defines one constraint for each interval of the simulation while [RHS Week] defines one for each week.

A variety of left-hand side terms are available through the collections on the Constraint class e.g. to set a left-hand side coefficient for a line flow, set Constraint Lines [Flow Coefficient]. A Constraint may include any number of left-hand side terms, but is restricted to a single right-hand side constant. As with most properties, the right-hand side may vary over time (Date From, Date To, Timeslice), or stochastically according to a Variable , but for any one constraint in the formulation the right-hand side is usually constant.

However, modelling applications exist in which the right-hand side is defined by an equation and is not a simple constant. For example, transmission flow limits that depend on a complex combination of factors such as system inertia. This is where the Constraint RHS Constant feature comes in. It enables complex expressions on the right-hand side that will be evaluated iteratively during the simulation.
Lists:
	- The sense of the constraint
	- The right-hand side constant
	- The left-hand side coefficients
	- whereas RHS , RHS Hour , RHS Day , .... , RHS Year define a sequence of constraints; one for each
	- RHS Custom defines a single constraint that notionally spans the entire horizon; more
	- Line "SNOWY" has Flow Coefficient 1
	- Region "NSW1" has Load Coefficient 0.014
	- Generator objects "MP1-2" and "WW7-8" have Generation Coefficient of -0.107.
	- The maximum flow on a transmission line, the units are megawatts
	- The generation of a generator, the units are megawatts
	- The number of units generating at a generator, the units are number of unit
	- Fuel the unit is TJ (or GBTU)
	- Generation the unit is GWh
	- Emissions the unit is tonne (or ton)
	- Units generating or units started the unit is number of units with no scaling
	- Capacity built, installed or available the unit is megawatts
	- include a constraint only if a given Scenario is included in your Model; or
	- make a constraint active only in certain time periods; or
	- include a constraint only in a given phase or phases of the simulation; or
	- apply a Constraint only when certain conditions are active in the simulation; or
	- apply an offset to a constraint so that it is 'swamped' (made always slack) when a
	- use a high positive value during the 'active' period; or
	- set a price of -1 which indicates that the constraint is 'hard' during that period.
	- The first highlight is the message that appears when a problem is identified by the
	- In the next section (the Infeasibility Report) a list is given of all constraints and variable
	- After a period of time a Feasibility Repair Report is printed. This presents the solution to
	- If a simulation only uses the MT Schedule or LT Plan then the step-size (one year by 
                        default) must be set to at least as long as the longest constraint time period, i.e. the MT 
                        Schedule step-size should always be sufficiently large to handle all constraints.
	- If ST Schedule is used alone then any constraint that has a time period longer than the ST Schedule step size will be dropped from the model prior to execution, and the 
                        simulator will issue an appropriate warning. You should enable MT Schedule and/or LT 
                        Plan in this case.
	- If ST Schedule is configured to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step 
                        and there are constraints decomposed from MT Schedule or LT Plan , it is preferred, but not required, 
                        that the amount of look-ahead hours are equal to (or a multiple times of) the length of the step type, eg. for a daily step ST, it's 
                        better to set the total look-ahead hours as 24, 48 or 72, etc, so the decomposed daily limit will apply to all look-head periods.


H2s:
1.2. Creating Constraints
1.3. Example
1.4. Units of the Right-hand-side
1.5. Multi-annual, seasonal and other Special Constraints
3.1. Switched by Scenario
3.2. Switched by Time Period
3.3. Switching by Simulation Phase
3.4. Conditional Constraints
8.1. Introduction
8.2. Constraint Period Type
8.3. Inter-temporal Optimization
8.4. Decomposition Method
9.1. Introduction
9.2. SUM Type
9.3. MAXSUM Type
9.4. MAX Type
9.5. Available Constraint Coefficients

H3s:
3.4.1. RHS Changes by Condition
3.4.2. Conditional Constraint Properties
9.5.1. Production Simulation
9.5.2. Hydro
9.5.3. Capacity Expansion Planning
10. Constraint RHS Constant Expressions
