Header: Flow Path Class

Table Details:
Description:	A path in a flow network

Paragraphs:
See also Flow Path Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

Related Classes: Commodity , Flow
            Network , Flow Node , Flow
            Storage .

Flow Path objects work as the links between Flow
            Node objects to represent a Flow
            Network .

The following is a basic guide to using Flow Path:



Flow Path objects can represent uni-directional or bi-directional
          flows, but are bi-directional by default. To define a uni-directional
          flow, set up the Flow Node From and Flow Node To memberships
          in the correct direction and set Max
            Flow equal to the maximum flow allowed and set Min
            Flow zero.

Flows on the path can be continuous or in discrete 'bundles' as
          defined by the Bundle Size property.

Flows can be subject to losses as determined by the Efficiency property.

See the example in the Flow Network topic.

You can define custom constraints on Flow Node via the Constraints membership. The Objectives membership allows you to include Flow Path coefficients in your
          multi-objective optimization problems.

Flow Path supports expansion in LT Plan .
          The key input properties are Max
            Units Built and Build Cost and optionally FO&M Charge .
          Expansion costs can be treated as a lump sum or automatically
          annualized by defining WACC and Economic Life . Units can be
          built from Project Start
            Date or immediately if this not defined. Other available
          constraints related to expansion are:

Retirement occurs automatically after the Technical
            Life . Retirements can be optimized if you define Max
            Units Retired and will incur a Retirement
            Cost .
Lists:
	- Project Start Date
	- Min Units Built
	- Max Units Built in
              Year
	- Min Units Built in
              Year

