Header: Fuel Class

Table Details:
Description:	Fuel for a thermal generating unit

Paragraphs:
See also Fuel Property Reference for a
          detailed list of properties for this class of object.



Fuel data can be input either:

See the Commodity Unit topic for details on how Unit and Energy
            Density work together.

The Fuel class is used to represent all types of fuel used for
          generation or generating unit start up:

Note that the collections Generator Fuels and Generator Start Fuels are one-to-one by
          default. To model multiple fuels for either generation or start-up you
          should change the collection to one-to-many using Configuration in the
          user interface.



The property Fuel Units is used to
          switch a Fuel in/out of a running Model .

The property Generator Is
            Available switches a Fuel in/out of use by a Generator .



The cost of the Fuel is set by either:

You can define a different dispatch price for the fuel by using the Shadow Price property. In this case
          the Price inputs are used for
          accounting only.



Broadly speaking, there are two sources of emissions associated with
          Fuel use:

There are many emission types that are commonly modelled, including
          but not limited to Carbon dioxide (CO 2 ), Sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ),
          Nitrogen oxide (NO x ), and Mercury (Hg). These are all
          modelled using the Emission class.
          Depending on the source and type of emission it might be more
          appropriate to equate emission production directly with Fuel Offtake or with Generator Generation or a combination. For example, fugitive emissions are usually modelled
          as a simple function of the Offtake whereas the best approach to modelling combustion emissions depends on
          the emission type, with CO 2 being a function of Offtake but mercury being more closely related to Generation .

You associate a Fuel with an Emission by adding the Fuel to the Emission Fuels collection, and then defining Emission Fuels Production Rate . For Generation related emissions
          define Emission Generators Production Rate .



Simple limits can be defined on fuels using the properties Max
            Offtake and Min Offtake and
          their hour/day/week/month/year variants. Fuel
            Contract objects have similar constraints representing maximum
          offtake as take-or-pay commitments.

Other Constraints can be defined
          on Fuel Offtake or Emissions Production associated with
          the Fuel.



The Fuel class works with the integrated gas-electric function. Fuel
          objects provide the pricing information for gas. Fuel objects link to
          the gas network with the Fuel Gas Nodes membership. This membership indicates which gas nodes the Fuel can be
          purchased at. A Generator connects
          to the gas network with the Generator Gas Node membership but should
          also define a Generator Fuels membership.

See Gas Modelling for more
          details.



A Fuel stockpile (inventory) can be modelled, so that any Offtake causes a Withdrawal from
          inventory. The stockpile is modelled by the simulator whenever you
          define Opening Inventory or Max Inventory with Delivery .
          Inventory is tracked through time during the simulation in much the
          same way as a Storage . Various limits
          can be placed e.g. Max
            Withdrawal and charges modelled including Delivery
            Charge , Withdrawal Charge , Inventory Charge and Reservation
            Charge . These inventory costs can be accumulated by a Company via the Fuel Companies membership.



Fuel reports total usage as Offtake as well as the Total Cost and
          volume-weighted Price . The simple Time-weighted
            Price can also be reported. Costs are based on the Total
            Price if defined, otherwise on the Shadow
            Price .

Fuel-related costs are passed through to Generator objects and reported in Generator Fuel Cost and/or Start
            Fuel Cost . Generator SRMC is based on the Fuel Shadow Price .

Fuel stockpile levels are reported as Opening
            Inventory and Closing
            Inventory .

Fuel objects are reported by Company automatically based on the combination of Generator Fuels and/or Start
            Fuels and Generator Companies .
          This does not include inventory costs however, but these can passed to Company reporting if you define Companies membership in input.
Lists:
	- In the default units, which is controlled by the Units of Data
            screen accessible from the Settings menu on the ribbon; or
	- In custom units defined by the Unit property optionally combined with the Energy
              Density property.
	- Fuels are associated with generation using the Generator Fuels collection and for start up
            via the Generator Start
              Fuels collection.
	- Fuels can produce Emissions .
	- Fuels can be arbitraged in Markets .
	- defining the Fuel Price property
            with or without any Tax ; or
	- by associating the Fuel with one or more Fuel
              Contract objects.

