Header: Entity Class

Table Details:
Description:	Ownership and/or strategic entity
Formulate Risk	Yes		Yes/No
Risk Level	0.05		-
Acceptable Risk	250,000		$

Paragraphs:
See also Entity Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

The Entity class represents a strategic interest in one or more Markets where a given Commodity is sold, and that is produced by one or more Facilities .
          An Entity can 'own' those facilities outright or Share them with other entities. It reports the Revenue accrued from Sales of the Commodity in those Market(s) and the Total
            Production Cost from Production of those facilities and calculates a Net
            Profit . In stochastic optimization, Entity can place constraints
          on the variance of that Net Profit i.e. perform 'risk-constrained' optimization.

Entity becomes an active part of the optimization in stochastic optimization i.e. when:

Stochastic mode differs from 'regular' Monte Carlo simulation in
          that the samples are solved simultaneously in a single optimization
          problem rather than in separate/independent problems, and therefore it
          is possible to place constraints (and objectives) that link the
          decisions and outcomes across the full sample set. Stochastic
          optimization is solved with the "scenario-wise decomposition"
          technique and allows the definition 'first-stage' and 'recourse'
          decisions with inputs such as Facility Production
            Non-anticipativity . The outcome of this optimization, although
          more robust than Monte Carlo simulation, might still show scenarios
          where Net Profit is unacceptable,
          even if the probability is low. To control the Conditional Value at
          Risk (CVaR) of Net Profit you can
          enable Entity Formulate
            Risk and define Entity Acceptable
            Risk and Risk Level as
          outlined in the example below.

Refer here for an explanation of VaR and CVaR.

Figure 1 shows a histogram of the total Net
            Profit (values are in 1000s and for a one week window) obtained
          across 100 samples of a portfolio optimization. This example was
          created with an Entity that owns a number of facilities and the trades
          in a market for the commodity produced by those facilities. The
          simulation setup has Stochastic Risk Sample Count = 100
          and the Market Price is defined by a Variable object.
          Additionally, Facility Production
            Non-anticipativity is set to $10,000 which prevents these
          resources from having perfect foresight of the market prices.

Figure 1: Histogram of Net Profit

Querying Net Profit in the GUI Solution Viewer automatically
          calculates and reports the CVaR at 1%,5% and 10%. In this case the
          CVaR at 5% is $217,459. We can now take value as the Acceptable
            Risk (217,459) input along with the 5% Risk Level (0.05).  If we were to rerun the simulation with
          inputs we would obtain exactly the same result. The constrain the CVaR i.e. find a more risk averse solution, we increase the Acceptable
            Risk or decrease the Risk Level .
          In this case we have rerun the simulation with the input shown in
          Table 1.



This yields the histogram of Net Profit shown in Figure 2 (the orange
          bars compared to the original blue). The CVaR constrained outcome has
          altered production at the facilities to reduce the incidence of low
          profit outcomes, as desired and the new CVaR reported in the solution
          viewer query of Net Profit is $250,000.



Figure 2: Histogram of Net Profit with CVaR Constraints
Lists:

