Header: Emission Class

Table Details:
Description:	Class of generator emission (e.g. NoX, SoX, CO2, etc)
Emission
                    Price	Emission
                    Shadow Price	Emission Constraints	Emission dispatch	Emission accounting
				Emission.Price
			Emission.Shadow Price	Emission.Shadow Price
			Emission.Shadow Price	Emission.Price
				
			Constraint shadow price	Emission Price
			Constraint shadow price	Constraint shadow price + Emission Shadow Price
			Constraint shadow price	Emission Price
			Constraint shadow price	Constraint shadow price

Paragraphs:
See also Emission Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.



Various activities including the generation of electricity by
          fossil-fired plant produces a range of combustion by-products such as
          NO x (NO and NO 2 ), SO x (SO and SO 2 )
          and CO 2 :



There is no assumed unit of emission in the simulator, however, the
          display of units of emission production and other input and output
          parameters can be set in the Units of Data settings. When specifying
          the rate of emission production, the "unit of emission" is used, and
          when reporting emissions in summary (daily, weekly, etc ) the
          "1000 emission units" is used in display. Note that if the unit of
          emission is pound (lb), the "1000 emission units" setting should be
          "000's lb" (or equivalent), not short or long tons (since a short ton
          is 2000 lb, and a long ton is 2240 lb). Alternatively, the production
          rates can be manipulated so that when multiplied by 1000, the total
          production is in equivalent tons i.e. by dividing the
          production rates by 2, so that summary emission data are shown in
          short tons.





Emissions are associated with Generation by adding Generator objects to the
          Emission Generators collection
          and/or Fuel Offtake by the Emission Fuels collections
          and the following properties:

Emissions associated with Generator Units Started are modeled
          with the Emission Generators Production at Start property.

The emissions associated with a specific Fuel and Generator can be scaled using
          the Generator Fuels Emission Scalar property. See that topic for more details.

The sales and purchases into markets e.g. energy markets
          can contribute to or abate emissions if you define either the Emission Markets Sales
            Coefficient or Purchases
            Coefficient .





The abatement of emissions is modelled either:

Abatement objects provide detailed modelling of the physical and cost
          aspects of abatement technologies as well as allowing the simulator to
          optimize the choice of technologies employed from a set of defined
          alternatives.



The incremental cost of emissions on Generation is a function of the Shadow Price and defined production rates net of any removal rate or other scaling.
          This incremental cost is reported as Generators Incremental Cost and forms part of the SRMC .
          This dispatch effect of emissions can be adjusted with the Generators Shadow Price
            Scalar property.



Basic constraint on the total Production can be entered with the property Max
            Production which has variants for day, week, month and year
          types.

More complex emission constraints are created using Constraint objects. To define a constraint on:

In the latter case the simulator uses the list of generators included
          in the constraints as a filter, so only the emissions of those
          generators are counted in the constraint (otherwise the constraint
          would include all emissions). This second method also ensures that
          only the emission included in the constraint is only one constrained
          (otherwise it would include all emission types produced by the
          generators).

The Constraint class provides
          interval, day, week, month and year period types and also Custom
          period type, which allows you to create a single constraint that spans
          any time period whatsoever e.g. you might have a limit on
          the total emissions of a Generator or group of Generators across several years. Such multi-annual
          constraints are best handled by LT Plan which can be used to decompose very long-term constraints into
          equivalent annual limits for MT
            Schedule .

Because these emission constraints are fully integrated into the
          mathematical programming problem, the dispatch and pricing outcome will reflect the economic impact of the constraints. This
          means that, when an emission constraint is binding, lower emitting
          plant will be favoured over high emission plant, thus the merit-order
          of generators will change. However generators in many schemes that
          implement the Kyoto protocol incumbent generating companies are given
          grandfather rights to emit. This allocation of rights can be modeled
          using the Company Emissions property. These allocations pass back to the company and affect Net
            Profit . When running models this will result in generator
          bidding behaviour reflective of the net position with respect to
          emissions e.g. a high emitter may retain its place in the
          merit order if its allocation of emission right is high enough.



In addition to or instead of modelling physical emission limits,
          emission taxes/prices can be modeled either by:

Price is treated as the 'accounting
          price' for emissions. This is the price used to compute cost assigned
          to generators for their emissions, but it is distinct from the Shadow
            Price which is the 'dispatch price' meaning that this is the
          price used to adjust generator offer prices to account for emissions.
          The following table describes the effect of setting either or both of
          these properties:





It is important that your emission constraints, production rates, and
          shadow prices are consistent with your model's assumptions about
          auxiliary use.

The following note applies if you define either generator
            auxiliaries , or use Marginal
            Loss Factor at the generator level, and use the default settings
          of Load Metering Point ,
          which is that generator offer quantities are generator-terminal, but
          offer prices are sent-out. For example, the Australian NEM uses
          generator-terminal loads for dispatch, and thus there is an implicit
          assumption in the load data about how much generator auxiliaries are
          included. This has an important impact on emissions modelling because
          emission constraints are imposed in the optimization on gross
          (generator-terminal) generation and fuel use, but generator offer
          prices are calculated on a net (sent-out) basis.

In the case where you input the Shadow
            Price of the emission then the simulator can correctly computes
          the effect of that shadow price on the sent-out generator offer
          prices. Thus in this case the system energy price will correctly
          reflect the marginal cost of emissions.

However, in the case where you input a quantity constraint on
          emissions, the shadow price on that constraint is not known a
            priori and thus the simulator cannot pass through the affect of
          auxiliary losses on to the generator offer prices that is implied by
          that emission limit. There will therefore be some mismatch between the
          energy prices and the emission shadow prices (in general the emission
          price will be overstated, and the energy price understated).

To compensate in this case you could either:

where:




Lists:
	- A database may include production details, constraints, and taxes
            on any number of emissions.
	- Emissions can be produced, absorbed (scrubbed), constrained, and
            penalized across all or any subset of generators and/or fuels.
	- Constraints can be placed on
            the total of any emission and/or on a subset of producers across any
            time period including multi-annual constraints.
	- There is no limit to the number of emission limits modeled.
	- Emission grandfather rights can be modeled.
	- Emission Generators Production
              Rate property defines the functional relationship between
            megawatt generation and emissions. For more details, see Setting Emission Production Using Load Points and Bands .
	- Emission Fuels Production
              Rate property defines the functional relationship between fuel
            usage and emissions.
	- As a simple proportion of emissions via the Emission Generators Removal Rate property combined with Removal
              Cost ; or
	- Using Abatement objects
	- the total of an emission produced: add the emission to the Constraint
              Emissions collection, and set the Constraint Emissions
	- all emissions produced by one or more generators: add the
            generators to the Constraint
              Generators collection and set the Constraint
              Generators Emission Coefficient for each
	- all emissions produced by one or more fuels: add the fuels to the Constraint Fuels collection and
            set the Constraint Fuels Emission Coefficient for each.
	- a subset of generators that produce an emission: place the
            emission into the Constraint
              Emissions collection and set the coefficient
	- Setting the emission Shadow
              Price directly; or
	- Defining a soft constraint i.e. one with one or more bands of penalty price.

