Header: Vehicle Class

Table Details:
Description:	An electric vehicle (EV, PHEV, etc)

Paragraphs:
See also Vehicle Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

Vehicle represents a type of vehicle and is most commonly used to
          model electric vehicles, but may also model plug-in-hybrid electric
          vehicles (PHEV) or internal combustion (ICE) powered vehicles. Vehicle
          objects can represent multiple physical vehicles via the Units property. This allows you to expand the size of the fleet being
          modeled without having to create additional Vehicle objects i.e. it is the 'key' property. Thus, each Vehicle object represents a
          specific vehicle type and usage pattern e.g. you might create
          one object to represent a daily-driven domestic commuting vehicle of
          given efficiency and battery size, and another to represent a
          commercial vehicle with a very different range, efficiency and usage
          pattern.

Electric Vehicle objects connect to one or more Charging
            Station objects via the Charging
            Stations membership. Vehicles move between charging stations
          using the Share property i.e. a share value of 100 means the vehicle is present at the
          charging station, 0 means it is not present. The Share property represents the probability the vehicle is connected to a given charging station.

You may choose between a 'simple' model in which the charging profile
          is known upfront and no battery storage is modeled, or a 'detailed'
          model where the travel demand is the input and the charging demand and
          battery state-of-charge is modeled explicitly.

The simplest EV representation requires only the input of a Fixed
            Load , which represents the (known) charging load for a single
          vehicle 'unit'. The Vehicle must still be connected to at least one
          Charging Station which draws the appropriate load from the grid. When
          Fixed Load is defined the battery storage of the vehicle is not
          modeled so properties like Capacity and Max SoC , and Demand are ignored. Like any property, the values of Fixed Load can be input
          from a Data File or made stochastic
          with a Variable .

You may optionally define the Vehicle Efficiency (Wh/km) and Charge Efficiency (%) so that the distance travelled can be computed - see below
          regarding emission constraints based on distance travelled.

Under the simple Vehicle model, charging decisions are prescribed: Vehicles will charge as per Fixed Load profiles. Some flexibility in charging deferment
            can be modlled via Charging Station Deferrable Load .

Vehicle Demand is a dynamic
          property representing the distance travelled across time (km or miles).
            Connections to Charging Stations via the Share property
            defines the range of possible possible charging and V2G actions that can be undertaken. Both will occur
            at the times and magnitudes which minimise total system cost.

Charging is subject to losses according to the Charge
            Efficiency property and the Losses are reported. According to the properties defined on the Charging
            Station(s) , the Vehicle charging demand might be deferred
          partially or fully for a number of hours ('V1G') and/or the Vehicle
          may discharge from its battery to the electric grid ('V2G'). Discharge
          is subject to losses according to the Discharge
            Efficiency property.

Hybrid or ICE vehicles consume fuel via the Vehicle Commodities membership. The Commodities in this collection should be of energy
          type or convertible to energy with the Commodity Energy Density property.

Vehicles can produce or abate emissions via the Emission Vehicles membership. The amount
          of emissions (+ve value) or abatement (-ve value) is defined with
          either or both the Distance
            Coefficient and Charging
            Coefficient properties.

Vehicles can provide ancillary services (frequency control and
          spinning reserve) as defined by the Charging
            Station(s) .

Vehicle supports expansion in LT Plan .
          The key input properties are Max
            Units Built and Purchase
            Cost and optionally FO&M
            Charge . Purchase costs can be treated as a lump sum or
          automatically annualized by defining WACC and Economic Life . Other
          available constraints related to expansion are:

Vehicle retirement occurs automatically after the Technical
            Life . Disposal of Vehicles can be optimized if you define Max
            Units Retired and will incur a Disposal
            Cost .
Lists:

	- Explicit formulation of battery energy storage capacity
	- Actively cooptimized charging and V2G behaviour: this will occur at the times and quantities
            which minimise system cost.

	- Min Units Built
	- Max Units Built in Year
	- Min Units Built in
              Year


H2s:
Simple Model
Detailed Model
