Header: Market Class

Table Details:
Description:	A market that can supply and/or demand a Commodity
Type	Description
Commodity	A Market can buy/sell any Commodity
                via the Markets
                membership.
Electricity	An energy market is connected to one or more Nodes.
                Trades to and from the energy market are made at these nodes.
                The megawatt trades act like pseudo loads (for sales) or
                generators (for purchases). Note that the nodal price will still
                reflect the marginal cost of production at the node i.e.
                the external market prices will not always set the prices at
                these buses.
Capacity	A capacity market is connected to a set of generators.
                Those generators receive revenue from the capacity as a function
                of their availability.
Heat	A market for heat is connected to one or more Generators
                that can provide waste heat e.g. for district heating
                requirements. The conversion rate between the heat input of the
                generator and the waste heat provided to the market is defined
                by the property.
Fuel	A market can be connected to one or more Fuel
                objects. This feature is designed to model arbitrage between a Fuel Contract and a spot
                market with the Market object representing the supply of spot
                market fuel.
Emission	Emissions can be bought and sold to/from a Market by
                connecting the Market to one or more Emission
                objects. Rather than trading the emissions, the sales and
                purchases into another market e.g. an energy market
                can contribute to or abate emissions if you define either the Emission Markets
Sales
                  Coefficient or Purchases
                  Coefficient.
Reserve	Each ancillary services market must be 'connected' to a reserve.
                The reserve object defines the set of generators that provide
                the service and their capabilities. Trades can be made in either
                direction i.e. sales to the external market or
                purchases to meet local reserve requirements. Note that the
                reported reserve price will still reflect the marginal cost of
                reserve provision i.e. the external market prices will
                not always set the prices of reserve, but all trades will be
                valued according to the market prices.
Gas	Natural gas can be bought from or sold a Market by connecting
                the Market to one or more Gas Node
                objects. The Market then acts like an export (sales) or import
                (purchases) at the gas node.

Paragraphs:
See also Market Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.

The Market class is a versatile tool in both market modeling (where
          the objective function is maximization of net benefit - essentially
          minimization of system cost) and portfolio optimization (where the
          objective function is profit maximization).

In market modeling , a Market object represents a source
          and/or sink for a commodity e.g. electricity, gas, etc (see
          below for a complete list). Transactions in the market become part of
          the system cost minimization objective function i.e. Purchases from the market are 'costs' and Sales to the Market are 'benefits' (or 'negative costs'). The properties Max
          Purchases and Max Sales determine the volume of purchases/sales
          allowed in the Market. Thus a Market can be either or both a source
          and a sink. The price paid for purchases and/or received for sales is
          set by the Price property. This can
          be either a fixed price or defined as in multi-band pairs of Price and Quantity with Base
            Quantity to define a market supply/demand curve for a market
          with depth i.e. where the price varies depending on the
          amount purchased/sold. An alternative to defining a supply/demand
          curve is to set a fixed Demand for
          the given commodity and optionally Shortage
            Price and Surplus Price .
          This creates a simple 'vertical' demand function with price caps and
          is convenient for modeling markets that do not have demand bidding.

In portfolio optimization , the primary input property is
          the Market Price (which, like most
          inputs, can be a deterministic or stochastic variable ). 
          The objective function becomes maximization of revenue less production
          cost i.e. maximize profit from trades in the market.

Market objects can be buyers or suppliers of the following:

Markets can also be used in a passive sense to 'mark-to-market' Generator Generation or Reserve
            Provision i.e. to price the production.

Any number of markets can be defined in a simulation and the
          simulator co-optimize sales and/or purchases to/from all markets
          simultaneously. Trades in markets can be combined seamlessly with
          'local' load, ancillary services, etc .

Markets can represent either external markets in which trades are
          made, or they can represent options or transactions such as physical
          contracts for generation, load obligations, fuel nominations that are
          exercisable over some time period e.g. a daily exercisable
          option.

Markets can be either forward or real-time as described by the Is
            Forward property. Forward markets are optimized first in a
          two-stage optimization process. Once the optimal level of forward
          market sales and purchases has been determined these levels are fixed
          while the real-time markets are solved. This two-stage optimization
          ensures that there is no "pure trading" between forward and real-time
          markets. The two-stage solve is invoked automatically hence there are
          both forward and real-time markets in the model.

Each Market object provides collections for connecting the external
          market to the other simulation elements. How this connection works
          depends on the type of market being modeled.

















As well as representing complete external markets, Market objects can
          be used to represent specific exercisable options for either supply or
          demand. Thus a portfolio optimization could include many Market
          objects representing available options that are to be optimized
          exercisable over various time frames.

Options for buying from a market are set up using Max
            Purchases and one of Buy Block and-or Buy Block Day / Week / Month / Year ,
          and Buy Unit .

Options for selling to a market are set up using Max
            Sales and one of Sell Block and-or Sell Block Day / Week / Month / Year ,
          and Sell Unit

The Block properties (Buy Block, Sell Block and the period
          derivatives) determine the period over which the option is exercised
          (i.e. period, day, week, month, year). The Buy Unit ands Sell Unit
          properties determine the discreet size of the option. For example a
          buy block of 25 MW allows the option to be exercised in 25 MW
          increments up to Max Purchases.





Markets can be settled using marginal pricing or volume-weighted
          pricing- the default being marginal pricing. This is controlled by the Is Marginal property.

The volume and value of trades made to/from the market is reported in
          the properties: Sales , Purchases , Net Sales , Net
            Purchases , Revenue , Cost , Net Revenue . The volume-weighted
          price for sales/purchases are reported as Price
            Received and Price Paid respectively.

To flow these reported trades and revenues/costs back to the
          portfolio owner you need to add the Company or companies that own the trades in the Market
            Companies collection. You can share the reported volumes and
          revenues/cost using the property of that membership.

Note that generators will continue to receive income from energy
          sales into their transmission node and those incomes will flow back to
          the owning companies as reported pool revenue. Because some or all of
          this generation is sold into energy markets there will be some
          double-counting of revenues. There are couple of ways of dealing with
          this, you can either:





The market class is a very flexible model and with some of the
          markets it is possible to inadvertently create an unbounded objective
          function. This is reported by the solver as a dual infeasibility (if
          the dual problem is infeasible this means the primal problem's
          objective is unbounded). This situation can happen where your data
          implies that infinite sales can be made into a market with a
          non-negative price. You should correct this problem e.g. by
          setting a cap on sales using Max Sales .
Lists:
	- Commodity optionally at one
            or more Flow Nodes .
	- Electrical energy e.g. a buyer of Generator Generation at one or more Nodes
	- Generation capacity e.g. as buyer of Generator Available Capacity
	- Heat e.g. a buyer of Generator Waste Heat
	- Fuel e.g. a seller of Fuel to a Generator
	- Emissions e.g. a buyer of Emissions
	- Ancillary services e.g. buying or selling Reserve
	- Gas e.g. a buyer or seller of natural gas at a Gas
              Node
	- Manually subtract the reported Generator Pool Revenue from the
            company revenues/profits; or
	- Set the Region Generator
              Settlement Model and Load
              Settlement Model to "None", meaning that no pool revenues are
            accumulated to the generators themselves and only trades in the
            external markets are counted as pool revenues/costs.

