Header: Generator Class

Table Details:
Description:	Generating unit, or collection of like generating units
Units	1	-	1/01/2001	
Max Capacity	300	MW		
Min Stable Level	140	MW		
Heat Rate	11.5	GJ/MWh		
Fuel Price	4.5	$/GJ		
Heat Rate	11500	BTU/kWh		
Fuel Price	4.5	$/MMBTU		
Units	1	-			
Max Capacity	1500	MW			
Min Stable Level	990	MW			
Min Load	1080	MW			W2-6
Min Load	990	MW			W1,7
Units	1	-			
Max Capacity	60	MW			
Min Load	5	MW			M1-4,10-12
Min Load	15	MW			M5-9
Max Energy MONTH	15	GWh			M1-4,10-12
Max Energy MONTH	27	GWh			M5-9
Units	1	-
Max Capacity	240	MW
Pump Load	240	MW
Pump Efficiency	70	%
Collection
Generator	Units	1	-
Generator	Max Capacity	20	MW
Generator	Sync Cond Units	1	-
Generator	Sync Cond Load	0.1	MW
Generator	Sync Cond VO&M Charge	10	$/MW
Collection
Generator	Units	1	-
Generator	Max Capacity	20	MW
Generator	Generating Units	0	-
Generator	Sync Cond Units	1	-
Generator	Sync Cond Load	0.1	MW
Generator	Sync Cond VO&M Charge	10	$/MW
Generator	Inertia Constant	7	MW⋅s
Units	1	-	1/01/2001	1/01/2030
Max Capacity	150	MW		
Units	4	-		
Units	-	5/01/2010		
Units Out	1	-	8/01/2004	9/01/2004

Paragraphs:
See also Generator Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of object.









All types of generation resource e.g. thermal, nuclear,
          hydro, pump storage, RES, etc . are modeled with the
          Generator class. There is no need to specifically identify the type of
          a generator; the simulator infers the type of generator from the data
          and relationships that are defined on it. Regardless of the type of
          generator, you must define both Units and Max Capacity . Note that
          the default value of Units is
          zero, and hence you must define it for the generator to 'exist'.



A thermal generator uses one or more fuels. The efficiency of
          generation is defined using a heat
            rate function . You can chose to define the fuel cost using the Fuel Price property directly, or
          indirectly by adding one or more fuels to the generator's Fuels collection, and setting the Price property of the fuel(s). Thermal generators define a normal operating
          range using the property Min
            Stable Level .

Example ( using metric units )

Example ( using imperial US units )

NOTE: To switch between metric and imperial units for data entry use
          the Settings form.

The operation of combined-cycle generators can be optimized in detail
          as described in the Combined Cycle Plant article.

Combined Heat and Power (CHP) plant are modeled using special input
          properties, as described in the Combined
            Heat and Power article.



Nuclear generators are often run to a strict regime, with a high
          minimum operating level, which is defined with Min
            Stable Level . To define a fixed operating regime, use the Fixed
            Load or the Min Load properties.

Example



Hydro generators can be modeled in a number of different ways. The
          simplest approach is to define energy constraints to approximate the
          availability of water (see Max
            Energy , and Max
            Capacity Factor ), and a profile of minimum operating levels to
          represent run-of-river generation (see Min
            Load ).

Example

Alternatively if you have a pre-defined profile of hydro generation
          you can enter this using the Max
            Load property.

A hydro generator with inflows can be modeled with or without a Head
            Storage . The Head Storage membership connects the generator to the storage model. Inflows are
          defined with Storage Natural
            Inflow property. Generation will draw from the storage according to the defined Efficiency function. To create a cascade of storage, connect the Generator to a Tail Storage . Spillways, and
          canals are modeled with Waterway objects. See the article Cascading
            Hydro Networks for more details.

Use the Generator Natural
            Inflow property to model 'tributary' inflows directly to the
          Generator. By default these inflows are 'must run' or Spill but can have a controllable element.

Pumped storage plant must have a Head
            Storage and a Tail Storage defined. In addition you must define the properties Pump
            Efficiency and Pump Load .
          You may also define Pump Units and Min Pump Load . Pump
          storage is usually modeled as a closed system, i.e. no
          energy flows into or out of the head or tail storage other than from
          generating or pumping. See the article Pumped
            Storage for more details.

Example



Renewable Energy Sources (RES) and battery energy storage systems
          (BESS) can be modeled to a high level of detail. See the article Renewable
            Energy Sources .

A synchronous condenser is a generator connected and synchronized to
          the power grid but not generating electricity. A unit running in this
          mode can provide spinning reserve or inertia . You can indicate
          that a generator can run in this mode by setting the Sync
            Cond Units input property. A synchronous condenser can draw a
          small amount of load from the grid according to the Sync
            Cond Load property.

The following example illustrates a generator that can switch between
          generating and synchronous condenser modes.



The following example illustrates a generator that acts only as
            a synchronous condenser to provide inertia. Note the use of Generating Units = 0 to
          indicate that the Units are not
          allowed to generate. In this case each unit operating in synchronous
          condenser mode provides 20 × 7 = 140 MW⋅s inertia.







As with any class, generators can be organized into categories .
          The categorization of generators does not affect the way they are
          modeled but it does help when reviewing and editing input and solution
          data. Categorizing your generators is highly recommended.



A generator must be connected to the transmission network by adding
          one or more nodes to the generator's Nodes collection. Note that you may
          apportion the generation across multiple buses if required using the Generation
            Participation Factor property. For pumped storage the load can
          be distributed to one or more nodes with
          the Load
            Participation Factor .

The 'wildcard' Nodes* collection is used to create a copy of the Generator at each Node .
          This is useful in LT Plan for creating
          'floating' generators i.e. projects whose location is to be
          optimized along with the expansion decision. It is also useful in
          modelling small-scale distributed generation such as batteries or
          demand-side response. See the Nodes* topic for more details.



The Price Received for Generation is controlled by the
          attribute Generator
            Settlement Model . The default is for generators to receive the
          weighted-average Price at the nodes
          they connect to but other options are available from this attribute.
          Alternatively you can mark-to-market by adding a Market object to the Mark-to-Markets collection of the generator.

A Generator object can Formulate
            Risk in a risk-constrained simulation to bounds its Net
            Profit within an Acceptable
            Risk . Alternatively, the Generator can participate in a Company which can Formulate Risk .



Max Capacity and Units together define the installed
            capacity of the generating station. In multi-unit generators the
          units are assumed to have identical characteristics.

The units and/or max capacity properties should not be used
          to take units in and out of service for planned maintenance or
          mothballing. To model a case in which one or more units are out of
          service for periods of time, use the Units
            Out property with appropriate dates or patterns.

Examples

You can also model random unit outages, called forced outages by
          defining Forced Outage Rate .
          Additionally the placement of maintenance outages can be optimized -
          for a discussion of both random and planned outage modelling see the
          article Maintenance
            Scheduling .



Production cost is represented by offers to the market (also called
          'bids'). Offers can be entered directly using Offer
            Quantity and Offer Price .
          But if user-defined offers are not defined the simulator creates a
          representation of the unit production cost function using the Fan
            Approximation method. This automatic method has a similar effect
          to defining a multi-band offer based on incremental cost, though it
          also captures the no-load cost.

Production cost is defined using a heat
            rate function , fuel price ,
          and variable operations and
            maintenance cost .

An alternative to defining detailed offers is to define the 'economic
          range' (with Economic
            Maximum and/or Economic
            Minimum ). This might represent the 'normal' operating range with
          generation outside of that range being reserved for ancillary services
          or times of shortage or over-generation.



The simulator optimizes generator unit commitment. The key properties
          relating to on/off decisions are Min
            Stable Level , Start Cost ,
          and Shutdown Cost . You can
          also model more complex restrictions such as Min
            Up Time , Min Down Time

By default it is assumed that generating units can run up and down
          between zero and Min Stable
            Level instantaneously, with ramping inside the normal operating
          range restricted by Max Ramp Up and Max Ramp Down . However
          you can limit the ramping during start up and shutdown by using Run
            Up Rate (for a constant run up rate for each cooling state) or start profile (for a variable
          run up rate), and likewise Run
            Down Rate or shutdown
            profile for running down.

For operational modelling then initial conditions are defined using
          the properties Initial
            Generation , Initial
            Units Generating , Initial
            Hours Up , and Initial
            Hours Down .

Other constraints that affect unit commitment are Fixed
            Load , Min Load , and Rough
            Running Ranges .

Unit commitment can be hardwired for all or a selection of periods
          using the Must-run Units ,
          and Commit properties.

May other constraints can be defined with properties or via the Constraint class including:

There are a number of solution methods available for the unit
          commitment problem. The default setting relaxes any integer
          constraints and provides a simple Linear Relaxation. You should change
          the Production setting Unit
            Commitment Optimality to enforce integer constraints. The
          similarly named option Unit
            Commitment Optimality setting is also available on the Generator objects so that the
          solution method for unit commitment can be customized.

The trade off between solution quality and performance of the integer
          unit commitment can be controlled with the following settings:



In the context of real-time operation of the generating system, unit
          commitment decisions must be made ahead of time. This is particularly
          the case for larger and/or slow start units that may require a notice
          period before they can begin a start up. Thus if we are optimizing the
          unit commitment of the system 'now' there will be a window of time
          over which the decisions we make to commit or not commit certain
          generators are locked in i.e. where there is no recourse
          available. This constraint, called the "non-anticipativity" constraint
          (because it is a constraint on the length of time we can react to
          unanticipated events) is modeled in the simulator using the special
          properties:

and for pumped storage pump commitment decisions:

These properties together define the penalty for "perfect foresight",
          with -1 indicating infinity, and the window of time over which is
          constraint applies.

Optimizing unit commitment with non-anticipativity constraints
          requires:

In ST Schedule you would set Stochastic Method =
          "Scenariowise-decomposition" (which is the method used to solve the
          stochastic optimization problem).

For all generators with non-anticipativity constraints defined the
          unit commitment decision over the defined time frame of the constraint
          will be optimized such that a single optimal commitment is made -
          optimal with respect to the uncertainty. This single optimal decision
          path will necessarily be more expensive than the solution of
          "Independent Samples" (perfect foresight) but is robust against the
          defined volatilities.



The rate at which a generating unit changes load level is called the ramp rate . A unit's ramp rate is limited by its physical
          characteristics. Generally these limits imply that a unit cannot ramp
          through its entire operating range in any one dispatch interval. This
          limitation becomes more apparent as the length of interval decreases e.g. in a 5-minute market units can ramp only 1/12th as much per interval
          as an hourly market. The properties Max
            Ramp Up and Max Ramp Down set limits on the ramping capabilities. When modelling ancillary
          services using Reserve object it can
          be important to account for the combined effect of ramping and reserve
          provision. See the Response
            Ratio property for details.



Generators use some energy 'in house'. This use is defined using the
          auxiliary use properties described in the property page Auxiliary
            Use .



Emissions from production are modeled using the Emission class by associating the Emission with the Generators and/or Fuels . For more details, see Setting
            Emission Production Using Load Points and Bands .

Similarly, emissions abatement is modeled using the Abatement class by associating the Abatement with the Generators and Emissions .



Certain common generation constraints are included as properties on
          the Generator object:

Going beyond this capability, various aspects of generator dispatch
          and commitment can be included in generic
            constraints . These might be used to model fuel limits, emission
          limits, or transmission nomograms for example. Generic constraints can
          be defined for every period of the simulation, or over aggregate
          quantities e.g. daily, weekly, monthly, etc.



The timing of new generation builds and retirements can be optimized
          using the LT Plan algorithm.



The property Generation
            Participation Factor that defines the injection to the network
          is allowed to be negative. In this case the Generator is treated as a
          load by the Node . This can be a useful
          way to model very complex loads especially in LT
            Plan .
Lists:
	- Number of units started in a given period (day, week, month, year
            or other) using the Max Starts property and period variants.
	- Number of hours of operation of a multi-unit station using the Constraints Hours
              of Operation Coefficient
	- Generator Unit
              Commitment Aggregation
	- Generator Unit
              Commitment Period
	- Production settings related to
            heat rate detail, run up/down and start costs
	- Performance settings for the
            MIP solver especially the MIP
              Relative Gap
	- Unit
              Commitment Non-anticipativity
	- Unit
              Commitment Non-anticipativity Time
	- Pump
              Unit Commitment Non-anticipativity
	- Pump
              Unit Commitment Non-anticipativity Time
	- Your simulation is defined with more than one sample of Variable values and/or outage patterns - see the Stochastic topic; and
	- The simulation phase is set for stochastic optimization.
	- Energy limits with Max Energy
	- Capacity factor limits with Max
              Capacity Factor and Min
              Capacity Factor


H2s:
1.1. Thermal
          Generation
1.2. Nuclear
          Generation
1.3. Hydro
          Generation
1.4. Pumped
          Storage
1.5.
          Renewable Energy Sources and Energy Storage
1.6.
          Synchronous Condenser
