Header: Gas Field Class

Table Details:
Description:	Field from which gas is extracted

Paragraphs:
See also Gas Field Property Reference for a
          detailed list of properties for this class of object.

See the Gas Modelling article
          for details.

"Gas Field" is a tract of land used for the purpose of extracting
          natural gas from the ground and it is considered as the main source of
          gas coming into our system. The obligatory connection of a "Gas Field"
          object is with a " Gas Node ", while the
          flow from there could take different directions.

"Gas Field" can be toggled off or on within our system using the " Units " property. Additionally, an external injection of gas into the field
          from external sources or loss of gas from leaks can be represented
          with the use of " External Injection " property. In case of gas additions, the sign will be positive
          whereas for leaks it will be negative.

The production of gas can be limited in any interval with the use of
          the " Max Production "
          property, while a " Target " can be
          set to reach with a penalty assigned " Target Penalty ". Penalty values are making the constraints soft and this gives the
          flexibility to the algorithm to decide the most cost- efficient
          approach to solve the problem.

The maximum units of "Gas Fields" to be built through the Horizon can
          be constrained from the " Max Units Built " property, while the maximum built number per year can be adjusted
          by the " Max Unit Built in Year " property.

Some of the most common reporting properties are the " Production " which is defined as the production of the Gas Field in TJ and the
          " End Volume " which is defined as
          the volume of gas in the field at the end of the period and is
          calculated as: End Volume = Initial Volume - Production

In order to create a cost curve at the gas field object the user needs
          to use multiple bands at the "Production Cost" and " Production Volume " properties. The combination of these properties and the use of
          different bands will give a cost curve.
Lists:


H2s:
Production
Constraints
Expansion
Reporting
Gas Field Cost Curve
