Header: ST Schedule Class

Table Details:
Description:	ST Schedule simulation phase

Paragraphs:
See also ST
              Schedule Property Reference for a detailed list of properties
            for this class of object.

ST Schedule is mixed-integer programming (MIP) based chronological
          optimization. It is distinct from LT Plan and MT Schedule in that it model
          days of the horizon at full resolution, as dictated by the Horizon Periods per Day setting. At
          the default setting this means every hour, but the resolution can be
          customized to any feasible length e.g. 5-minute intervals.

ST Schedule is designed to emulate the dispatch and pricing of real
          market-clearing engines, but it provides a wealth of additional
          functionality to deal with:

Emulation of real market-clearing engines involves clearing generator
          offers against forecast load accounting for transmission and other
          constraints to produced a dispatch and pricing outcome. ST Schedule
          can do this but the simulator extends this basic functionality by
          allowing you to specify fundamental data such as generator start costs
          and constraints, heat-rate curves, fuel costs, etc . as well
          as or in addition to market data such as generator offers, and the
          dynamic formulation engine in the AMMO software at the heart of the
          simulator tailors the representation of each simulation element, such
          as a generator, at runtime and on a case-by-case basis. This allows
          you to seamlessly mix market data with fundamental data as desired -
          relying on the simulator to compute the appropriate market
          representation at runtime, and maximize simulation efficiency.

ST Schedule provides two methods for modelling the chronology:

In this mode, ST Schedule runs every trading period and maintains
          chronological consistency across the horizon. For example it can model
          generator start ups and shutdowns and track the status of units across
          time. The Horizon options allow you
          to select either the whole or only a subset of the planning horizon
          for execution with ST Schedule.

When selecting the planning horizon, the step type is chosen from
          years, months, weeks, or days. But the ST
            Schedule Step Type must be either weeks, days, hours, or
          minutes. The reason for this is related to the way in which PLEXOS
          sets up and solves the ST Schedule problem. At runtime PLEXOS:

The length of each ST step is controlled by the ST
            Schedule At a Time property. In general the longer each step of
          the ST Schedule is, the greater the execution time will be for each of
          those steps, but there is some overhead is switching from one step to
          the next. You should experiment with these settings to find the best
          combination for their models.

Note further, that the outcome of the simulation can be influenced by
          the size of the ST step when there are significant intertemporal
          aspects. This is because the state of the system, e.g. generator unit commitment, is recorded and carried over from one step
          to the next, but each step does not look-ahead to the next. Hence
          unless the model has no intertemporal elements, e.g. when
          performing a pure market-clearing emulation, it is recommended that
          the ST be run in steps of no less than one day at a time.

To further improve the optimization of unit commitment decisions you
          can configure ST Schedule to use a look-ahead period ahead of each step. This allows the step size of ST Schedule to
          be kept small ( e.g. a day at a time) but sufficient
          look-ahead maintained for unit commitment decisions.

When ST Schedule is run in typical week mode, the horizon options are
          simplified. The simulation will always run across the whole planning
          horizon, and the only option to chose is the size of each step of the
          ST Schedule i.e. how many trading periods should be 'solved'
          at once. Typically, large models should be run in daily or evenly
          hourly steps, smaller models can run in weekly steps.

Running in this mode reduces the amount of simulation work for ST
          Schedule by more than a factor of four, but PASA and MT Schedule are still run in
          exactly the same manner.

Note that solution data for the typical week is written into the
          solution database, and the user interface will explode those data out
          so that a full chronology can be viewed. This means that the size of
          the solution database is also reduced when ST Schedule is run in this
          mode. Summary data (daily, weekly, monthly, annual) are all calculated
          based on the mapping of typical weeks to trading periods i.e. the
          daily data for a day that was not part of a typical week, is taken
          from the day of the same type in the typical week that was run. Thus,
          summary data are complete, but may not match input data such as total
          energy, and peak demand.

The selection of week inside the month is controlled by the option Typical Week . The beginning day
          of week is set by the Week
            Beginning option. When set to automatic, the week begins on the
          same day of week as the first day of the planning horizon.

By default the steps of ST Schedule are executed in sequence and each
          links to the previous for initial conditions. Step link behaviour is
          controlled with the setting Step
            Link Mode and additional options. Steps can be executed in
          parallel for a significant speed improvement and to better utilized
          compute resources.

ST Schedule is capable of performing Monte Carlo simulation where the
          samples differ in:

The number of samples executed is controlled by settings on the Stochastic object associated with the executing Model .

The Stochastic Method setting allows you to choose between running the samples sequentially,
          or in parallel. Parallel is more efficient but requires more memory to
          execute.

Guided Monte Carlo is a variation in which only selected simulation
          steps solve all samples. This is available via a hidden
            parameter .

The Stochastic Method setting also allows the stochastic samples to be used as 'scenarios'
          in a two-stage stochastic optimization, where selected decisions are
          taken as 'non-anticipative' while others are recourse. For example,
          this approach can determine the optimal unit commitment of selected
          generators given uncertainty in forecast load or price. See the Unit
            Commitment Non-anticipativity for more information.

Reporting can be done for every sample and additionally statistics
          can be reported (min, max, mean, std. dev.). See the Report topic for more details.
Lists:
	- unit commitment
	- constraint modelling
	- financial/portfolio optimization
	- Monte Carlo simulation
	- stochastic optimization
	- dynamically constructs a mathematical programming problem to
            represent the first step of the ST Schedule; and then
	- as each step is evaluated, the same problem is simply modified to
            represent the next step, and so on until the required horizon has
            been evaluated.
	- the outage state of Generators and/or Lines
	- the value of one or more stochastic Variables


H2s:
2.1. Full
          Chronology
2.2. Typical
          Week
4.1. Monte
          Carlo Simulation
4.2.
          Stochastic Optimization
4.3.
          Reporting
