Header: LT Plan - The Formulation

Table Details:
GenBuild(g,y)	Number of generating units build in year y
                for Generator g	integer
GenLoad(g,t)	Dispatch level of generating unit g in
                period t	continuous
USEt	Unserved energy in dispatch period t	continuous
CapShorty	Capacity shortage in year y	continuous
D	Discount rate. We then derive DFy
                = 1/(1 + D)y which is the discount factor
                applied to year, and DFt which is
                the discount factor applied to dispatch period t	
Lt	Duration of dispatch period t	Hours
BuildCostg	Overnight build cost of generator g	$
MaxUnitsBuilt(g,y)	Maximum number of units of generator g
                allowed to be built by the end of year y	
PMAXg	Maximum generating capacity of each unit of
                generator g	MW
Unitsg	Number of installed generating units of generator
                g	
VoLL	Value of lost load (energy shortage price)	$/MWh
SRMCg	Short-run marginal cost of generator g
                which is composed of Heat
                  Rate × Fuel Price
                + VO&M Charge	$/MWh
FOMChargeg	Fixed operations and maintenance charge of
                generator g	$
Loadt	Average power demand in dispatch period t	MW
PeakLoady	System peak power demand in year y	MW
ReserveMarginy	Margin required over maximum power demand in year
                y	MW
CapShortPrice	Capacity shortage price	$/MW
1	1/(1+0.12)1	0.892857143
2	1/(1+0.12)2	0.797193878
3	1/(1+0.12)3	0.711780248
4	1/(1+0.12)4	0.635518078
5	1/(1+0.12)5	0.567426856
6	1/(1+0.12)6	0.506631121
7	1/(1+0.12)7	0.452349215
8	1/(1+0.12)8	0.403883228
9	1/(1+0.12)9	0.360610025
10	1/(1+0.12)10 + (1/(1+0.12)10)/0.12	3.005083542

Paragraphs:






The capacity expansion problem is formulated in the simulator as a
          Mixed-Integer Linear Program (MILP or MIP for short). To illustrate
          the very core of this formulation, we develop the following simplified
          formulation.



Definitions Let us define the following variables:

We also define the following parameters:

Note this illustrative formulation includes only build decisions, but
          can easily be extended to include retirements.

The objective function of LT Plan seeks to minimize the net present
          value of build costs plus fixed operations and maintenance costs plus
          production costs. The core formulation for LT Plan is thus:

Minimize

∑ ( y ) ∑ ( g ) DF y × ( BuildCost g × GenBuild ( g , y ) )

+∑ ( y ) DF y X [ FOMCharge g × 1000 × PMAX g ( Units g + ∑ i≤y GenBuild g,i ) ]

+∑ ( t ) DF t∈y × L t × [ VoLL × USE t + ∑ g (SRMC g × GenLoad g,t ) ]

subject to

Equation 1: Energy Balance ∑ ( g ) GenLoad ( g , y ) + USE t = Demand t ∀ t

Equation 2: Feasible Energy Dispatch GenLoad ( g , t ) ≤ PMAX ( Units g + ∑ i≤y GenBuild g , i )

Equation 3: Feasible Builds ∑ i≤y GenBuild g,i ≤ MaxUnitsBuilt g , y

Equation 4: Integrality GenBuild ( g , y ) integer

Note that the LT Plan formulation in its minimal form does not
          include constraints on capacity margin. Instead the natural trade-off
          between energy shortage and build costs will ensure that capacity is
          built if it is economic and that the energy price (dual variable
          associated with the energy balance constraints) will exactly
          compensate the marginal build for its production and build costs. The
          resulting capacity reserve margin could take any value (including
          negative) and the amount of unserved energy could be any value up to
          the amount of load i.e. this 'natural' solution may or may
          not meet acceptable reliability standards.





In reality, systems require a certain minimum capacity reserve,
            which is commonly calculated based on reliability metrics such as LOLP or EENS .
            These values are not easily modelled directly in the MIP formulation
            and thus must be converted to a reserve margin (percentage of peak
            load) or absolute megawatt capacity requirement instead. Thus the
            additional equation would appear in the formulation:

Equation 5: Capacity Adequacy ∑ ( g ) PMAX g ( Units g + ∑ i≤y GenBuild i ) + CapShort y ≥ PeakLoad y + ReserveMargin y ∀ y

The effect of this constraint is to ensure that new builds occur
            not just for economic reasons but also to meet the capacity reserve
            margin: and this constraint may also defer economic retirements.

If the constraint is binding at the optimal solution its shadow
            price represents a Capacity
              Price , and the energy price will not, on its own, compensate the marginal build for its build
            and production costs i.e. compensation comes from a
            combination of energy and Capacity
              Payments .

However, the pricing outcome is more complicated than this due to
            the integer nature of the decision variables involved. In most cases
            in fact the shadow price on this capacity constraint will be zero,
            even though it has changed the solution-an effect referred to as a
            'duality gap'. This is because capacity is added in 'lumps' rather
            than on a continuous basis, thus in most cases the constraint is
            slack at the integer optimal solution-see Revenue
              Adequacy .

However, LT Plan automatically computes a pseudo 'capacity shadow
            price' in the "Integer Optimal" case based on the loss incurred by
            the marginal new build in each capacity Region / Zone .





It is assumed that neither forced outages nor maintenance outages
            affect capacity, but that both forced and maintenance outages
            subtract from available energy.





Generator Forced Outage
              Rate (FOR) and Maintenance
              Rate (MOR) are included in the LT Plan formulation. FOR and
            MOR subtract from the energy contribution of generators, thus
            Equation 2 changes to:

Equation 6: Energy Dispatch Feasibility Accounting for
              Outage Rates GenLoad g , t ≤ ( 1 - MOR g × MF t - FOR g ) × PMAX g × ( Units g + ∑ ( i ≤ y ) ( GenBuild i ) ) ∀ g , t

where:







When considering the capacity available to meet a capacity margin
              constraint forced outage and maintenance is ignored in summing
              generation capacity, since the input reserve margin should already
              account for forced outages.

The LT Plan attribute Use
                Effective Load Approach (ELA) provides another means for
              accounting for forced outage rates. By default the ELA is "off"
              and the capacity constraints is:

Equation 7: Capacity Constraint ∑ ( g ) PMAX g × ( Units g + ∑ ( i ≤ y ) ( GenBuild i ) ) + CapShort y ≥ PeakLoad y +
              ReserveMargin y ∀ y

If the ELA is enabled however, the 'raw' generation capacity is
              used in this equation, but the load is modified, thus the input
              minimum reserve margin could be zero. The basic premise behind the
              Effective Load Approach is to take the load and appropriately
              modify it with respect to the convolved capacity outages. It
              transposes the convolved generators forced outage rates into the
              load, modifying the load to account for the capacity outages.



Equation 8: Generation Capacity with ELA GenLoad g , t ≤ ( 1 - MOR g × MF t - FOR g ) × PMAX g × ( Units g + ∑ ( i ≤ y ) ( GenBuild i ) ) ∀ g , t





The Generator Build
                    Cost property represents the (per kW) overnight cost of
                  building a new unit, i.e. the all-in capital cost as
                  per commissioning date. The above formulation shows this cost
                  being incurred in the year the plant is built. This 'lumpy'
                  capital cost approach is really only suitable if the planning
                  horizon is long enough to fully amortize the build cost e.g. at least the Economic
                    Life of the plant. If the horizon is not long enough to
                  cover the economic life of the last new build then the 'lumpy'
                  cost model is incorrect.

The approach used for projects whose life extends past the
                  end of the planning horizon, is to annualize the build costs i.e. convert them to an equivalent annual charge which is applied
                  in the year of build and every subsequent year across the
                  economic life of the generator. Note that Economic
                    Life can be different to the Technical
                    Life . The former defines the period over which the
                  aggregate annualized charge should equal the build cost, and
                  the latter is the physical lifetime of the plant.

We transform the 'lumpy' build cost input into an annualised
                  charge suitable for the LT Plan formulation as follows:

Equation 9: Annuity Calculation Annuity {g,y} = Build
                    Cost {g,y} × 1000 × Max
                    Capacity g,y × WACC g,y / ( 1 - [ 1 / ( 1 + WACC g ) ] Economic
                      Life )

The build cost coefficient in the objective function ( i.e. BuildCost g ) is thus replaced by the sum of the
                  discounted annual charges, starting from the given year y until the end of the economic life of the unit. The discount
                  rate used is the system
                    discount rate , whereas the Generator WACC (weighted average cost
                  of capital) will be project-specific. If no WACC rate is set, the discount
                    rate is used.

This calculation applies when no depreciation method is
                  selected. Straight-line and declining balance methods are also available. To view the formulation of these methods,
                  see Depreciation Benefits .





It is important, in the LT Plan formulation that the model
                  does not inappropriately consider the end of the planning
                  horizon to also be the 'end of time'. In the above basic
                  formulation we have implicitly assumed that LT Plan has an
                  infinite horizon. In practice, the model will have a finite
                  horizon. We therefore have to take account of so-called 'end
                  year effects'.

Without some method for dealing with end-year effects, the
                  model will in the last years of the horizon only build
                  generators with low build costs even if their marginal
                  generation costs are high. This is because the average cost of
                  generation between build year and the end of the planning
                  horizon, including build costs, will be lower for such
                  generators.

The option to control the treatment of the last year is set
                  by the LT Plan End
                    Effects Method attribute. By default we assume that the
                  last year of the horizon is repeated an infinite number of
                  times. The objective function is expanded by the cost of the
                  years after the final horizon year, which equals the sum of
                  the present values of generation costs and annualized build
                  costs. By including annualized build costs in the perpetuity
                  we are assuming that the system continues to expand after the
                  final year.

The following table shows the discount factors applied to
                  each year of a 10-year horizon assuming a discount rate of
                  12%, and showing the perpetuity applied to the last year.





The formulation of battery (storage) expansion is quite
                  similar to a generator expansion candidate. The charging and
                  discharge power are regulated by existing and expansion units:

The maximum volume (energy capacity) of the battery is also
                  expanded if new units are built and allows battery to store
                  more energy.

In addition, at the beginning of the build period
                  (yearly/quarterly/monthly), if a battery unit is built, the
                  initial stored energy ( initial
                    SOC ) is added to the existing energy level:

Previous
                    Chapter | Next Chapter
Lists:


H2s:
2.1.Energy Balance
2.2.Capacity Balance
