Header: Reserve Class

Table Details:
Description:	Ancillary service

Paragraphs:
See also Reserve
              Property Reference for a detailed list of properties for this
            class of object.

The Reserve class of objects in PLEXOS defines ancillary services for
          cooptimization with the energy dispatch.

There are a number of constraints imposed on the dispatch by the
          physical operating limits of the generating units and the transmission
          network. Among these constraints is the requirement that the system
          operates within an acceptable range of voltages, frequencies, and
          power flows even if a major generator or transmission link fails.

In defining instantaneous reserve in the under-frequency
          context, the single contingency situation is defined, in which there
          is a failure of the largest unit generating, the largest battery discharging, or a major transmission
          line. Immediately following the disruption the system frequency will
          fall from the nominal value and reach some minimum before the
          combination of voluntary load interruption and increased generator
          load addresses the generation-load imbalance. To meet the imbalance
          between the reduced generation and the load, several events may occur in
          combination:

Interruptible load reserve is straight-forward to model in a
          market-clearing model because it simply subtracts from the reserve
          requirement subject to its incremental cost. Generator reserve
          capability is necessarily co-joined with generator dispatch, and must
          be handled in a more sophisticated manner. The following sections
          describe generator reserve capability in general and develop the
          energy and reserve cooptimization first described by Drayton [1], and
          included in the New Zealand, Australia, and Singapore electricity
          markets. This approach forms the basis for the cooptimization approach
          in PLEXOS and is widely applicable to ancillary services modelling for
          international markets.

Several classes of ancillary services are required:

In addition, both regulation and fast response reserve can be defined
          as either 'raise' or 'lower' requirements. The lower requirement is
          needed in case of a sudden drop in load e.g. a major
          industrial load trips, or a transmission line goes out of service
          suddenly leaving the exporting region with surplus generation.

The simulator provides a broad and comprehensive capability for
          calculating economic dispatch constrained by all these ancillary
          services (reserve) constraints. This is achieved by integrating
          reserve constraints into the mathematical framework for dispatch and
          pricing to create a cooptimization of energy and reserves.

The Reserve class is generic enough that it can be used to model any
          class of ancillary service where provision is made by:

Ancillary services requirements imply that the choice of generating
          units, and their level of generation depends not only on unit
          availability and cost, but also on the impact each unit can have on
          system frequency during the critical period immediately following a
          contingency. Some plant provides a rapid initial response but then
          'runs out of steam'; other plant can only provide delayed response,
          while yet other plant provides a steady increase in output.

The following illustration is a trace of the system frequency
          following the loss of a 250 MW generating unit in the New Zealand
          system. The frequency will generally reach a minimum within five to
          seven seconds. It is important that the frequency remains above 48 Hz
          (from its nominal value of 50 Hz), a requirement referred to as the
          'minimum frequency constraint'. In addition, there must be sufficient
          surplus generation capacity available to return the system close to 50
          Hz within 60 seconds of the contingency, a requirement referred to as
          the 'surplus reserve constraint'.

In the New Zealand spinning reserve market, these are referred to as
          the fast and sustained, or 6 and 60-second reserve constraints.

The Australian NEM includes both 6, and 60 second reserve as well as
          5-minute reserve. It also includes both raise and lower services for
          under and over frequency events respectively.

The Type attribute selects the type
          of service (spinning, non-spinning, raise, lower, etc),

The term 'raise' refers to a service for generators' capability to
          raise output in response to an under frequency event, likewise 'lower'
          refers to a service where generators decrease (or unload) in response
          to an over-frequency event.

Ancillary services (Reserve objects) can be switched on/off using the Is Enabled property. This
          property supports scenario tags.

The Min Provision sets the
          minimum requirement for the service.

The reserve requirement can also be set dynamically based on the
          highest generation level of the set of Generators defined in the Generator
            Contingencies set and the set of Batteries defined in the Battery
            Contingencies set.

Further, the reserve requirement can be based on a percentage of load
          using the Load Risk property.

The 'final' requirement is the maximum of:

You can add a 'static' requirement to the resulting requirement with
          the property Static Risk .

If the reserve requirement exceeds the capability of all reserve
          sources then a shortage will be
          recorded, priced at the value of reserve shortfall ( VoRs ).
          Note that infeasibilities may result if VoRs is not set and the reserve requirement is impossible to meet. Thus it
          is good practice to define VoRs .

The generators that can provide reserve are added to the Generators collection of the Reserve object. Various properties on this
          collection can be set to control the amount of and cost of reserve
          available:

as well as:

By default all generators in the Reserve Generators collection can provide the reserve. Alternatively the choice of
          generators providing the reserve (out of this set) can be optimized as
          a 'choice' variable in the mathematical programming problem. In this
          case the minimum and maximum limits on provision are applied
          if-and-only-if the generators are selected to provide reserve. See the Unit Commitment topic.

Batteries which can provide reserve are added to the Batteries collection of the Reserve object. As for generators, properties on this collection can control the
            quantity and cost of reserve available.

In the following we discuss the approach taken to modelling spare
          capacity reserve of the 'raise' type in particular.

The reserve providing potential of a generating unit (or multi-unit
          station) depends on the amount of generation and hence the amount of
          spare generation capacity. Reserve capability increases as more energy
          is produced but is ultimately limited by spare capacity ,
          which falls as the unit approaches full loading. Ignoring factors such
          as minimum loading levels and efficiency effects, a continuous
          approximation to a unit's set of feasible operating points for
          instantaneous reserve can be plotted in the space of all combinations
          of output and generation capacity, as illustrated here:

The x -axis represents the units energy output prior to the
          contingency and the y -axis represents the reserve it could
          provide following a contingency. Point A represents zero
          output and reserve, while C represents maximum energy output
          with zero reserves. Energy plus reserve must be less than or equal to
          the units capacity. The 45-degree line RC in represents this
          constraint. If the unit can ramp to its maximum within the required
          timeframe from any initial output level then up to R MW
          could be provided as reserves. If the response time is very short then
          this limits the extent to which the unit can ramp up and hence the
          reserves it can contribute. This is represented by a 'cap' on the
          reserves provided which creates the region AR'DC .

In the absence of incentives to provide reserves, one can visualize
          the unit as normally operating along the line AC . When
          requirements for reserves are considered, the optimal trade-off
          between energy and reserve provision must be determined. If the unit
          would have been operating between A and D it could
          provide reserves up to the R'D level but no more reserves
          can be supplied so the units operating point would only change if the
          energy price changed. But, if the unit would have been operating
          between D ' and C , at E say, it could
          supply some reserves at E but might need to be
          'constrained-off' towards D to provide more reserve.

In the first case, the changing energy price would compensate for any
          change in output. In the second case, the market would at least have
          to compensate the unit for the profit foregone on the energy market;
          otherwise the potential provider will have insufficient incentive to
          provide reserves. If no additional compensation were required to
          cover, say the cost of operating at lower efficiency to provide
          reserves, the required compensation is given by the opportunity cost
          of backing off generation to provide reserves. This is implied by the
          interaction of the units energy offers, the energy price and the
          reserve capability curve. In the PLEXOS formulation this compensation
          will be automatically embodied in the reserves price, which is equal
          to the dual variable associated with the constraint defining the
          required quantity of reserves. Every provider of reserves should
          receive the same price for every unit of reserve and by definition
          this will at least compensate any individual provider for the cost of
          their reserves as stated in their offers.

If the energy price were fixed then, as in the energy market, there
          would be a single marginal provider of reserves who would set the
          price of reserves for the system and for whom the reserves price would
          exactly compensate for the cost of the most expensive accepted
          reserves offer. In reality, the reserves and energy dispatches are
          determined jointly. Ignoring any other constraints, there will be two
          truly marginal nodes at which the combined energy and reserves price
          pair leaves the producer indifferent between producing more or less
          energy and/or reserves in any combination.

There are two further complicating aspects:

Generators might also provide reserve by running in synchronous
            condenser mode .

Spare capacity that is selected for use in regulation reserves, and
          likewise generation for regulation lower services cannot (by default)
          also contribute to spinning reserve services. PLEXOS enforces this
          'mutually exclusive' constraint automatically.

In the case of multiple spinning reserve services e.g. 6-second, and 60-second spinning reserve, the spare capacity on a
          generator can be used for any of these services i.e. the
          same megawatt of spare capacity can provide raise response to any
          number of raise services (except regulation); and likewise the same
          megawatt of generation can provide lower response to multiple lower
          services. This default behaviour can be over-ridden with the Mutually
            Exclusive property.

Loads ( Purchaser objects) can
          provide interruptible load reserves. The amount of interruptible load
          is defined by the Reserve Purchasers interruptible load bid .

Pumped storage generators can also provide dispatchable load
          reserves. Refer to the property Reserve Generators Max Pump Response for details.

Regulation reserves in particular are regularly utilized, and the
          energy reserve cooptimization must account for the fuel use (or hydro
          water usage) that results. This is handled by the Energy
            Usage property.

In addition, hydro generators must ensure that sufficient potential
          energy remains in storage to cover reserve they provide. This in
          effect places a lower bound on storage whenever reserve is provided.
          This feature is handled via the Duration property.

The Market class offers a way to
          model the trading of ancillary services with external markets. Any
          Reserve object can be associated with a Market with the Reserves membership. Sales and Purchases to/from the Market act as
          demand/supply of the service and can set the Price for the Reserve.

You may associate any reserve provider ( Generators or Purchasers ) with the Reserve
          regardless of their location. In reality the reserve must be provided
          through the transmission network. The Sharing
            Enabled setting toggles on/off consideration of transmission
          constraints in the provision of the reserves. The additional setting Sharing Losses Enabled controls whether or not transmission losses are also accounted for
          when delivering the reserve across the network.

For this feature to work on a Reserve object you must:

The latter restriction is required because reserve sharing works only
          for transportation models and not with the full OPF.

The energy and reserve cooptimization leads to a price for reserve in
          each dispatch period. Payments are calculated and made to reserve
          providers: reported as Generators Revenue , and Purchasers Revenue . However, reserve
          revenues must be matched by an allocation of those costs. How reserve
          costs are allocated depends on the rules for the market being studied.
          A number of compatible cost allocation
            schemes are provided by the simulator. Allocation to generators
          is done to those in the Generator
            Cost Allocation collection.

The required compensation for ancillary services provision is
          automatically embodied in the reserve's price .
          Every provider of reserve receives the same price for every unit of
          reserve and by definition this will at least compensate any individual
          provider for the cost of their reserves as stated in their energy and
          reserve offers. If the energy price were fixed then, as in the energy
          market, there would be a single marginal provider of reserves who
          would set the price of reserves for the system and for whom the
          reserves price would exactly compensate for the cost of the most
          expensive accepted reserves offer. In reality, the reserves and energy
          dispatches are determined jointly. Ignoring any other constraints,
          there will be two truly marginal nodes at which the combined energy
          and reserves price pair leaves the producer indifferent between
          producing more or less energy and / or reserves in any combination.

Therefore, it is not necessary to define specific offers for reserve,
          because the reserve price calculated by the cooptimization method will
          naturally compensate any provider for their opportunity cost. However,
          PLEXOS allows for reserve providers to charge a premium (above
          opportunity cost) for providing reserve. The premium is expressed in a
          multi-band .

The property can be set if a generator must provide a certain amount
          of reserve regardless of the economics of the dispatch. Note that
          setting this property does not force the unit to commit, it is only
          enforced if the unit is operating.

This topic has introduced energy reserve cooptimization in the
          context of a system-wide reserve requirement. PLEXOS also supports
          modelling external reserve markets and
          will optimize trading in both forward and real-time ancillary service
          markets. See the Market class for more
          details.

The Constraint class provides a
          number of properties that allow the creation of generic constraints
          related to both reserve provision and risk.

A comprehensive range of output data are provided from the energy
          reserve cooptimization:

# G. R. Drayton (1997). Coordinating Energy and Reserves in a
            Wholesale Electricity Market . Ph. D Thesis. University of
          Canterbury, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lists:
	- Governors in the automatic generation control systems that react
            to the falling system frequency increase output from generators that
            are already operating - this is known as partially loaded spinning
            reserves (or simply "spinning reserve");
	- Generators operating as synchronous condensers i.e. synchronized to system frequency but carrying no load, e.g. hydro units operating in tail-water depressed (TWD) mode, are
            brought up to generate; and
	- Batteries may respond to the falling system frequency by changing their active power set point 
            ( i.e. charging less and/or discharging more);
	- The load taken by selected customers (or by pumped storage
            generators) may be reduced - this facility, called interruptible
              load is only available where suitable contracts, and
            automatic signalling mechanisms have been put in place.
	- regulation (frequency keeping) capability;
	- fast response reserve (for various time frames such as 6-60
            seconds, or several minutes);
	- non-spinning (or replacement) reserves; and
	- inertia.
	- setting aside spare capacity on running generators, or
	- interruptible load reserves including interruptible pumping load,
            or
	- synchronous condenser plant, or
	- plant on stand-by (non-spinning)
	- Min Provision ;
	- the largest unit generation in the Generator
              Contingencies set;
	- the largest battery generation in the Battery
              Contingencies set;
	- the largest line flow within the Line Contingencies set; and
	- the largest of the Load
              Risks .
	- Max Response ;
	- Max Pump
              Response for pumped storage interruptible load reserves;
	- Min Provision ;
	- Min
              Spinning Provision for spinning reserves;
	- Min
              Regulation Provision for generators defining a Regulation
              Range ;
	- Max Response ;
	- Min Provision ;
	- Min Spinning Provision ; and
	- Min Regulation Provision .
	- When a unit is ramping it may have reduced reserve capability. In
            PLEXOS, generator reserve response is linked to ramping by the
            property.
	- A generator might be able to provide reserve in a one-to-one
            relationship with spare capacity, and this is handled with the
            property.
	- How much reserve is required in each simulation period ( Risk ).
	- What price and hence cost was imposed by reserve ( Price , Cost )
	- Which generators and / or interruptible load provide reserves: Provision , and Provision .
	- How reserve costs were allocated to generators ( Cost )
	- What reserve revenues and cost flowed back to companies ( Company Net Reserves Revenue ).

