Header: Flow Storage Class

Table Details:
Description:	A storage located at a Flow Node

Paragraphs:
See also Flow Storage Property
            Reference for a detailed list of properties for this class of
          object.

Related Classes: Commodity , Flow
            Network , Flow Path , Flow
            Storage .

Flow Storage provides locational storage of a Commodity in a Flow Network . You do not
          need to specify the Commodity stored as it is inferred from the Flow Storage connection to the Flow
            Network via the Flow Storage Flow
            Node membership.

The following is a basic guide to using Flow Storage:

Flow Storage implements the same storage-related features as Commodity but with a locational aspect. See that topic for details.

Flow Storage implements a range of properties that allow you to model
          most types of storage. For example, to model a battery energy storage
          system (BESS) you can define the Injection
            Efficiency and Withdrawal
            Efficiency representing the Charge
            Efficiency and Discharge
            Efficiency of the battery respectively.

Flow Storage includes a comprehensive list of build-in constraint
          types including minimum and maximum injection and withdrawal , amount of
          the commodity in storage, the target storage quantity at the end of each period and the number of ' cycles '
          performed by the storage.

Flow Storage supports expansion of the storage capacity in LT Plan.
          Each 'unit expands the capacity by Max
            Inventory. The key input properties are Max
            Units Built and Build Cost and optionally FO&M Charge .
          Expansion costs can be treated as a lump sum or automatically
          annualized by defining WACC and Economic Life . Units can be
          built from Project Start
            Date or immediately if this not defined. Other available
          constraints related to expansion are:

Retirement occurs automatically after the Technical
            Life . Retirements can be optimized if you define Max
            Units Retired and will incur a Retirement
            Cost .

See the Flow Network topic for
          an example.
Lists:
	- Project Start Date
	- Min Units Built
	- Max Units Built in
              Year
	- Min Units Built in
              Year

