Header: Objective Class

Table Details:
Description:	Generic objective function

Paragraphs:
For a list of properties for this class, see the Objective property
            reference guide .





Objective objects define objective functions for use in multi-objective
            optimization .

Each objective object defines an equation representing an objective
          function to be added to the formulation in addition to or as a
          replacement for the 'default' minimization objective function.

The 'key' property for Objective objects is Constant which defines the constant part of the objective function (which may
          be zero). Defining or not, the Constant is the way an Objective object should be toggled in/out of the running Model e.g. by tagging the
          property with a Scenario . In
          addition, there are flags to toggle the Objective objects in/out of
          each simulation phase.

Objective objects have a Sense property to specify whether the goal is to minimize or maximize the
          objective. The objective function is defined using a linear
          combination of its memberships which, similar to the Constraint object, can span numerous other objects and properties.

Multiple objectives are combined based on the Priority and Weight properties. When multiple objectives have the same Priority ,
          they are solved together with the Weight values multiplied by their objective function to create a blended
          total objective for the optimization. When multiple objectives have
          different Priority values, the
          optimization problems are solved in order, with the highest Priority objectives solved first. Each subsequent, lower Priority solve includes deterioration limit constraints on the previous
          objectives already solved for. The Relative
            Tolerance and Absolute
            Tolerance govern how much those deterioration limit constraints
          can be violated.

Note that you can change the priority and weight of the default
          objective via the Model properties Objective Priority and Objective
            Weight .

Note: Multi-objective optimization is only supported when using the
          CPLEX or Gurobi solver.
Lists:

