Header: Region Decomposition Group

Table Details:
Units:	-
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	≥0
Key Property:	No
Description:	The decomposition group that the region belongs to.
Region	Property	Value
ISONE	Decomposition Group	1
NYISO	Decomposition Group	1
PJM	Decomposition Group	1
MISO	Decomposition Group	2
SPP	Decomposition Group	2
CAISO	Decomposition Group	3

Paragraphs:
The Region Decomposition Group property is the key setting to enable the geographical
        decomposition functionality.

The key motivation behind this feature is the need to model very large multi-area energy models, that are generally slow
        to run at the higher resolutions in ST Schedule. Generally, these power systems have natural area groups (e.g. sets of
        Regions) that are virtually transmission-independent, or where the transmission flows between them are reasonably static
        (e.g. between TSO/ISO). This implies that, once some reasonable estimate of those intertie flows are made, the area groups
        can be simulated independently.

The example data entry provides a decomposition as depicted in the following figure.

The following points describe the high-level process taken:

The user defines the decomposition group/s, by using the Region Decomposition Group property. This essentially instructs the software how the large
        multi-area models should be split into user-defined decomposition groups, which will run as separate simulations.

The group's are to be defined using the Region Decomposition Group property, which is an integer option with a default value of
        zero. Regions marked as being in the same number group will be simulated together. Thus, by default all are simulated
        together as they are now, i.e. no decomposition is done. Similarly, if all regions are grouped into the same group then no
        decomposition is done.

The table below provides an example of how this is defined, along with an explanation of the decomposed outcome:

Table 1: Geographical Decomposition Data Example

This will produce a single dataset with 3 decomposition groups, with the regions "ISONE", "NYISO"
        and "PJM" in Group 1. Group 2 consists of "MISO" and "SPP", while group 3 has a single region
        called "CAISO". If there are other regions, which are not defined, then an additional group will be created,
        which will be numbered as group 0.

Please note, this example is purely to demonstrate how regions can be grouped and is not a suggestion
          of how regions in the US should be modelled.

The transmission flows between the groups are calculated by first running a lower resolution simulation and recording
        the Line/Transformer flows between the groups, then passing those power interchanges to the high-resolution Decomposition
        Group runs as Market objects, with Sales and Purchases defined.

The low-resolution run will be either LT or MT, depending which phases are selected. If both phases are selected, then
        MT is considered to have a "higher resolution", so is utilized for the flow calculations. These flow calculations
        record the Line/Transformer flows between the decomposition groups defined, along with the regional pricing information.
        The Market Max Sales and Max Purchases properties are then used to define the intertie ( Line / Transformer ) flows between Decomposition Groups, along with the pricing
        information.

All this information is processed to produce a single new dataset, with associated settings and datafiles. These data
        files will all start with the Tilde (~) symbol, indicating that they are temporary files, i.e. they will be deleted at the
        end of the simulation. This file default behaviour can be changed, so that they persist for your interrogation. This can be
        disabled via the "Region_DiagnoseDecompositionFiles" hidden parameter.

The set of files created include the following:

The temporary outputted datasets will include all models and settings needed to complete the decomposition simulation.
        The data changes are:

The CSV files are simple data files, containing the decomposed values from the LT or MT phase.

When the simulations are completed, the individual group solutions will be combined a single database.

This process invokes the stitch functionality and will search for all simulated solutions completed successfully. It
        will then combine all of these into a solution file, which can be browsed as normal. Should one of the "group
        simulations" fail, the information will be omitted from the final solution file.

Using Connect (version 3.3R01 or higher) to launch a decomposition simulation will result in the decomposition groups
        being distributed to any of the client machines available. Once completed, the solution information is gathered and a final
        output solution database is generator.

Please note, that a decomposition simulation will only consume a single license, regardless of the
          number of decomposition groups being used.
Lists:
	- Dataset which is named "~{Dataset name} (Decomposition).xml"
	- Data files name in the following format: ~{Region name}_Fixed Sales.csv ~{Region name}_Fixed Purchases.csv ~{Region name}_Price.csv
	- ~{Region name}_Fixed Sales.csv
	- ~{Region name}_Fixed Purchases.csv
	- ~{Region name}_Price.csv
	- ~{Region name}_Fixed Sales.csv
	- ~{Region name}_Fixed Purchases.csv
	- ~{Region name}_Price.csv
	- Added new models based on the decomposition groups defined, e.g. ~Group1, along with a scenario with the same
          name;
	- Added Region Units to disable/enabled group regions; these are tagged by the relevant scenario;
	- Added Market objects for each region;
	- Added Market Max Sales / Min Sales ; these are also tagged by the relevant scenario;
	- Added Market Max Purchases / Min Purchases ; these are also tagged by the relevant scenario;

