Header: Reserve Duration

Table Details:
Units:	s
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	≥0
Key Property:	No
Description:	Time over which the required response must be maintained
SPINUP	Type	"Raise"	-
SPINUP	Min Provision	70	MW
SPINUP	Timeframe	60	sec.
SPINUP	Duration	600	sec.
SPINUP	Energy Usage	5	%
SPINUP	VoRS	1000	$/MW
SPINDOWN	Type	"Lower"	-
SPINDOWN	Min Provision	30	MW
SPINDOWN	Timeframe	60	sec.
SPINDOWN	Duration	600	sec.
SPINDOWN	Energy Usage	95	%
SPINDOWN	VoRS	1000	$/MW

Paragraphs:
Reserve Duration is the time over
          which the required response must be maintained. This contrasts with Timeframe which is the time in
          which the response is first required. Duration is used to account for
          the energy 'reservation' implied by reserve provision and affects
          hydro generators.

Example

For 'raise' type reserve, defining Duration implies that a reservation
          is made on the Head Storage of a hydro or energy in a storage of a Battery .
          This translates to a lower bound on Storage End Volume or Battery SoC for each megawatt of Spinning
            Reserve Provision . For 'lower' type reserve, a similar
          reservation is made on the Tail
            Storage of a hydro or energy in a storage of a Battery .
          This time it translates to a lower bound on tail Storage End Volume or an upper bound on Battery SoC for each megawatt of Pump
            Dispatchable Load Provision or lower provision from the battery.

For example, if the Generator or Battery provides 100 MW of raise
          reserve and Duration is 60s, it must have 10 × 60/3600 = 1.7 MWh
          available in storage. Likewise if the same quantum of lower reserve is
          provided the storage must have 1.7 MWh of headroom.

Duration interacts with, but is separate to Energy
            Usage . When that property is defined, the implied lower bound on
          storage is reduced, to account for the expected uptake of reserve.

When Duration is longer than the period length, initial conditions
          for generator response provision should be set. See
Lists:
	- Reserve Generators Initial
              Pump Load Raise Provision
	- Reserve Generators Initial Raise
              Provision

