Header: Storage Initial Volume

Table Details:
Units:	GWh
Mode:	Input/Output
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	≥0
Key Property:	No
Description:	Storage volume at the start of the period
PUMP1	Max Volume	5	GWh
PUMP1	Initial Volume	0	GWh
PUMP1 TAIL	Max Volume	5	GWh
PUMP1 TAIL	Initial Volume	5	GWh

Paragraphs:
Storage Initial Volume as an input
          sets the volume in the storage at the start of the first period of the Horizon . The units of Initial Volume
          are controlled by the Storage Model .

Example:

The example show a typical set up for a pump storage system.

When the following conditions are satisfied, initial volume may be freely optimized by PLEXOS (any value from 0 to Max Volume ): Chronology is Sampled , The storage duration (ratio of Max Volume to connected Generator Max Capacity ) is short 
                relative to the Sampling Interval . Under the above conditions, freely optimized initial volumes generally result in lower cost, more robust solutions in comparisons to those which
            strictly adhere to user-defined initial volumes.

As an extreme case, consider sampling only 1 day per year with End Effects Method set to 'Recycle'.
            A user-defined initial volume essentially fixes the storage volume for one interval duration in each day of the year. 
            If initial volume is 0 and simulations start from midnight, the storage cannot
            effectively be used in a solar soak pumped hydro application to meet nighttime demand, as it will be empty every midnight. 
            The one-time costs of filling low-duration storages are contextually negligible 
            when amortised over the entire Planning Horizon .

As an output, Initial Volume is the volume in storage at the start of
          the period.

See also:
Lists:
	- Chronology is Sampled ,
	- The storage duration (ratio of Max Volume to connected Generator Max Capacity ) is short 
                relative to the Sampling Interval .
	- Storage Max
              Volume
	- Storage Min
              Volume
	- Storage End
              Volume

