Header: Storage Decomposition Method

Table Details:
Units:	-
Mode:	Input Only
Multi-band:	False
Default Value:	1
Validation Rule:	In (0,1,2)
Key Property:	No
Description:	Method used to pass the optimal storage trajectory from one simulation phase to the next.

Paragraphs:
Storage Decomposition Method
          controls the way the simulator decomposes the optimal LT
            Plan or MT Schedule storage
          trajectory (the sequence of End
            Volume values in time) down to ST
            Schedule . Decomposition is generally required only for storage
          that are large enough that they do not attain their bounds within a
          single step of ST Schedule . This
          switch takes the following values:

More information is available in the Hydro
            Reservoirs article.

Notes:

where:

The size of the bands is controlled by the following power function:

where:
Lists:
	- For any method other than "None" and when using partial
            chronology, it is preferred, but not required, that the LT
              Plan LDC Type or MT
              Schedule LDC Type is at
            least the resolution of the Horizon Chrono Step Type e.g. if ST Schedule is running with
            day-sized steps (look-ahead included) then the preceding phase
            should use a day resolution. If the preceding phase runs a coarser
            resolution LDC such as week then the targets created could violate
            storage bounds. To compensate for this resolution mismatch penalties
            are introduced on the storage bounds according to the Decomposition
              Bound Penalty property. This does not apply to chronological LT Plan or MT
              Schedule .
	- Decomposition Method = "Shadow Prices" has a special function when MT Schedule is run with Stochastic
              Method = "Stochastic". In that mode the Storage Shadow Price is combined with
            the objective function value in each sample to produce a
            multi-dimensional shadow prices surface called the Future Cost
            Function (FCF). The components of this function can be access with
            the Diagnostic Future
              Cost Function .
	- When ST Schedule is run
            without MT Schedule you may
            enter a Future Cost Function (FCF) via the Global class.
	- Decomposition Method = "Targets" creates a penalty function around
            the decomposed trajectory so that variations are allowed in ST
              Schedule without creating infeasibilities in the target
            constraints. The penalty function is a piece-wise linear function
            that penalizes under-reaching of the target but not over-reaching.
            The function has 10 bands and the price in each band is based on a
            multiple of the Shadow Price calculated in MT Schedule thus:
	- a is Storage Decomposition
              Penalty a
	- b is Storage Decomposition
              Penalty b
	- c is Storage Decomposition
              Penalty c
	- x is Storage Decomposition
              Penalty x

