Header: ST Schedule Step Link Mode

Table Details:
Units:	-
Default Value:	0
Validation Rule:	In (0,1,2)
Description:	Controls how the solutions of each step are linked together.

Paragraphs:
This option controls how the steps of the simulation (controlled by Horizon Chrono
            Step Type and Chrono
            Step Count ) are linked together and how they are solved. It can
          take the following values:

If other simulation phases ( LT Plan , MT Schedule , PASA )
          are run in the same simulation as ST
            Schedule the usual decomposition information will be passed to ST Schedule regardless of this
          option. This means that "Break" and "Parallel" modes will still
          coordinate intertemporal constraints and long-term storage similarly
          to full "Link" mode. Other intertemporal constraints, however, will be
          freely optimized in the first period of each step i.e. the
          optimization is free to set:

Notes on usage:

When running in either of these modes it might be useful (but not
          necessary) to run ST Schedule separately from the other phases.

See also:
Lists:
	- Choosing blocks of Sequential
              Step s to run in parallel e.g. you could have the
            days in each week run sequentially, but the weeks in parallel;
            and/or
	- Step Relink Count which performs an additional pass on groups of steps so that their
            ending and initial conditions match up e.g. you can have
            days solved in parallel but relinked within each week.
	- Generator Initial
              Generation i.e. Generator Max Ramp Up and Max
              Ramp Down are free in period 1 of each step.
	- Generator Initial
              Units Generating i.e. Generator Start Cost and Shutdown
              Cost are free in period 1 of each step as are the constraints Min Up Time and Min
              Down Time .
	- Line Initial Flow i.e. Line Max
              Ramp Up and Max Ramp Down are free in period 1 of each step.
	- "Parallel" mode can dramatically improve performance because the
            simulation can access the full resources of the computer by running
            multiple optimization problems simultaneously.
	- "Break" mode is helpful to assess the accuracy loss for breaking
            step links before running parallel mode.
	- LT Plan Write
              Expansion Plan Text Files
	- MT Schedule Write
              Bridge Text Files
	- MT Schedule Step
              Link Mode
	- Write Outage Text Files
	- ST Schedule Step
              Skipping

